{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}{\f5\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f6\fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;
\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs18\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f5\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote text;}{\s246\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f5\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{\s247\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f5\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f5\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{\s250\li720\sb80\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\fi-245\li360\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon253\snext251 heading 4;}{\s252\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f5\lang1033 \snext10 heading 1;}{
\s255\li360\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal Indent;}{\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-240\li600\sb60\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext2 Jli;}{\s3\li120\sb60\sl-240\keep\tx520\tx920\tx1320\tx1720\tx2120 
\f6\fs16\lang1033 \snext3 Ex;}{\s4\li120\sb160\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa1;}{\s5\fi-240\li360\sl-240\tx360 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb1;}{\s6\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240\tx360 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb2;}{\s7\li360\sb60\sl-240 
\f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lp1;}{\s8\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Th;}{\s9\li115\sb60\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Tp;}{\s10\li120\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 
\snext0 Normal 2;}{\s11\li120\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 bitmap;}{\s12\li120\sb120\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa2;}{\s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Jl;}{\s14\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 
\brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \f5\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th2;}{\s15\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f5\fs16\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th3;}{\s16\li115\sb200\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext0 Normal 3;}{\s17\fi-1800\li1915\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1915 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext18 Thh;}{\s18\fi-1800\li1915\sb60\sl-240\tx1915 \f5\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext18 Tph;}}{\info{\author Mark Riordan}{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy29\hr20\min58}{\version1}{\edmins151}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern16417}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 
\widowctrl\ftnbj {\*\template C:\\WINWORD\\WHAT31.DOT}\sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f5\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Group_window}} {\fs16\up6 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Group Window}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Group Window}} Group Window
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 Group windows contain a list of subjects of }{\f4\ul articles}{\v\f4 article}{\f4  in a given }{\f4\ul newsgroup}{\v\f4 newsgroup}{\f4 
.  Double-clicking on the subject of an article causes that article to be retrieved into an }{\f4\uldb article window}{\v\f4 article_window}{\f4 .  See }{\f4\uldb Using the Mouse in the Group Window}{\v\f4 using_the_mouse_in_the_group_window}{\f4 .}{\f4 

\par }{\f4 Group windows initially appear i}{\f4 n the upper right area of the screen.  It is possible to have up to 4 group windows open at any one time.  See }{\f4\uldb Config Menu Commands}{\v\f4 config_menu_commands}{\f4 .}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 The first character of each subject line in a group window gives information about that article:}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-810\li1170\sb80\sl-240\tx1170 {\f4 space}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 indicates either that WinVN has no information on the status of this article, or that this article was available in a previous WinVN session and you chose not to view it.}{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 >}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 indicates that this article has been selected as the result of the previous }{\b\f4 Find}{\f4  operation.}{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 s}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 indicates that you have already seen this article.}{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 n}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 indicates that this article has appeared since your last WinVN session.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-2070\li2160\sb80\sl-240\tx2160 {\f4 The other fields in the window are:}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-2070\li2160\sb80\sl-240\tx450\tx2160\tx2340 {\f4 \tab }{\i\f4 Article}{\i\f4  Number:}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 
A number used to help a user locate a particular article.  Never refer to this number when responding to an article since the number will most likely differ from server to server.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\i\f4 Article Date:}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 The date the article was posted to the server.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\i\f4 Author's Name:}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 The network E-Mail address or name of person posting the article.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\i\f4 Article Size:}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 The number of lines in the article.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\i\f4 Article Title:}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 The title of the article.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-90\li180\sb80\sl-240\tx540\tx2340 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 {\f4\uldb Articles Menu Commands}{\v\f4\uldb articles_menu_commands}{\f4\uldb 
\par }{\f4\uldb Sort Menu Commands}{\v\f4 sort_menu_commands}{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb Search Menu Commands}{\v\f4\uldb search_menu_commands}{\f4\uldb 
\par }\pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f5\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Articles_menu_commands}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f5\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Articles Menu Commands}} Articles Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 New Article
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Creates a Posting window{\v posting_window} for the purpose of composing a new article for this newsgroup{\v newsgroup}.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Compose Mail
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Creates a Mail window{\v posting_window} for the purpose of  sending Electronic Mail.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Update
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Update the article display with any new articles that have arrived at the server.   Currently, this does not save any previous headers that may have been fetched but that will be fixed in a future release.
\tab 
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Save Selected Articles
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Save all articles marked via the Left Mouse Click or menu options to a disk file.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Decode Selected Articles
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Binary decode all articles marked via the Left Mouse click or menu options and store their contents in a file.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Select all Articles
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Mark all articles in the newsgroup as selected.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Deselect all Articles
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Mark all articles in the newsgroup as not selected.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Select Articles Containing...
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Selectively mark articles in the newsgroup based on whether its title contains a certain string of characters.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Exit
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Closes this Group Window{\v group_window}.
\par \pard \fi-180\li360\sb80\sl-240 {\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f5\lang1033 \page {\plain \f5\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Sort Menu Commands}} {\plain \f5\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} sort_menu_commands}} {\plain \f5\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Sort Menu Commands}} Sort Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Sort by Date
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Sorts all article headers by date
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Sort by Subject
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Sorts all article headers by Subject.  The letters RE: infront of subjects are ignored so that  responses will be sorted near the original subject.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Sort by Lines
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Use this to find out who writes the longest or shortest articles in a given newsgroup.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Sort by Threads
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 
Organize articles so they are displayed as a base article followed by each response articles.  Each response is indented in such a way as to show which article a person was reading when the response was made.  This option is o
nly available if Threading has been enabled from the Config menu.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Sort by Article Number
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Sort articles based on their article number.  This is the order the articles were received by the local server.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Sort by Author
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 Sort articles based on the E-mail address or name of the article author.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f5\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Search_menu_commands}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 
{\fs16\up6 $} Search Menu Commands}} Search Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Find...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 Searches the }{\f4\ul article}{\v\f4 article}{\f4  subjects in this }{\f4\uldb Group Window}{\v\f4 group_window}{\f4  for an article whose subject line contains a specified text stri}{\f4 
ng.  Find brings up a dialog box into which you enter the string for which you want to search.  Click on OK to start the search, or Cancel if you decide not to search after all.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 If an article is found whose subject contains the specified string, the  window will be scrolled so that the subject line is visible.  The selected article subject will be marked with a "}{\b\f4 >}{\f4 
".  If no such article can be found, WinVN says so via a message box.}{\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f5\fs20\lang1033 Find Next
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f5\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 Continues the search started by the previous Find... or Find Ne}{\f4 xt.  The next article containing the previously-set subject string is displayed if it can be found.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li90\sb80\sl-240 {\f4 \page }
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 
\par }