.\"                                                                   
.\" Filename:      compress.3
.\" Description:   
.\" Author:        Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" Modified at:   Mon Dec  8 00:54:16 1997
.\" Modified by:   Tage Stabell-Kuloe <tage@acm.org>
.\" 	
.\" 	Copyright (c) Univerity of Tromsø, Norway
.\" 	See the file COPYING for details
.\"                                                                   

.Dd November 14, 1997
.Dt COMPRESS 3
.Os PGPlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm compress
.Nd compress and decompress a PGP packet
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pgplib.h>
.Fd #include <zlib.h>
.Ft int
.Fn compress_buffer "u_char *in" "int inlen" "u_char **out" "int *outlen"
.Ft int
.Fn decompress_buffer "u_char *in" "int inlen" "u_char **out" "int *outlen" 
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The buffer specified by
.Fa in
(which is
.Fa inlen
bytes long), is compressed (or decompressed) and the result written into
allocated memory returned in 
.Fa out
which is (at least)
.Fa outlen
bytes long.  
The memory is allocated by means of 
.Fa malloc
and the caller is responsible for freeing it.
When compressing, in addition to the actual compression, a PGP packet
is also created. 
When decompressing, the buffer pointed to by 
.Fa in
must be compatible with RFC1991.
.Pp
Compression and decompression is actually done by 
.Fa zlib .

.Sh RETURN VALUES
If no errors occurs, 0 is returned,
On failure, -1 is returned.

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr free 3
.Xr malloc 3
.Xr PGPlib 3

.Sh BUGS
.Fn compress_buffer 
will actually compress anything, not only PGP
packets.  This should be changed.
PGPlib also has a function
.Fn decompress_file 
in order to gracefully handle files.  It should not be used since it
leaves data on disk (as PGP does).
.Sh HISTORY
Written by Tage Stabell-Kulø.  First appeared in PGPlib 0.1
.Sh STANDARDS
The packet in
.Fa out
will be compatible with RFC1991.
Compression is done as specified in 
.Fa RFC1950 , 
.Fa RFC1951 , 
and 
.Fa RFC1952
(zlib format).
