.\"                                                                   
.\" Filename:      convential_key_decrypt.3
.\" Description:   
.\" Author:        Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" Modified at:   Sat Nov  8 17:55:00 1997
.\" Modified by:   Tage Stabell-Kuloe <tage@acm.org>
.\" 	
.\" 	Copyright (c) Univerity of Tromsø, Norway
.\" 	See the file COPYING for details
.\"                                                                   
.\"                                                                   

.Dd May 6, 1997
.Dt CONVENTIONAL_KEY_DECRYPT 3
.Os PGPlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm conventional_key_decrypt
.Nd decrypt an IDEA encrypted buffer
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pgplib.h>
.Fd #include <idea.h>
.Ft int
.Fn conventional_key_decrypt "u_char *in" "u_char digest[16]" "int *outlen" "u_char **out"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The buffer pointed to by
.Fa in
is assumed to hold an IDEA encrypted PGP packet.  This packet is
decrypted and the result written into allocated memory returned in
.Fa out
which is (at least)
.Fa outlen
bytes long.  
The memory is allocated by means of
.Fn malloc 
and the caller is responsible for freeing this memory.
The decryption is perfomed with 
.Fa digest
as password and 0 as 
.Fa iv .  
The password is really the 
.Fa MD5 
hash of the actual password.

.Sh RETURN VALUES
If 
.Fa in
contains a PGP convential encrypted package, no errors occurs and the
password is correct, 0 is returned.
If the packet is not a valid packet, 1 is returned.
If the password is incorrect, 2 is returned.
On failure, -1 is returned.
\.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr malloc 3
.Xr free 3
.Xr PGPlib 3
.Sh HISTORY
Written by Tage Stabell-Kulø.  First appeared in PGPlib 0.1
.Sh WARNINGS
PGPlib does not supply an implementation of IDEA.  This code assumes
that SSL is used.  This might change.
.Sh STANDARDS
The routine accepts packets encrypted according to RFC1991, that is,
IDEA with context sensitive feedback.
