.\"                                                                   
.\" Filename:      convential_key_encrypt.3
.\" Description:   
.\" Author:        Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" Modified at:   Sat Nov  8 17:58:08 1997
.\" Modified by:   Tage Stabell-Kuloe <tage@acm.org>
.\" 	
.\" 	Copyright (c) Univerity of Tromsø, Norway
.\" 	See the file COPYING for details
.\"                                                                   

.Dd May 6, 1997
.Dt CONVENTIONAL_KEY_ENCRYPT 3
.Os PGPlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm conventional_key_encrypt
.Nd encrypt a buffer with IDEA
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pgplib.h>
.Fd #include <idea.h>
.Ft int
.Fn coventional_key_encrypt "u_char *in" "int inlen" "u_char digest[16]" "int compress" "int *outlen" "u_char **out"
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The buffer pointed to by
.Fa in
is assumed to hold a PGP packet.  This packet is then
encrypted and the result written into allocated memory returned in
.Fa out
which is 
.Fa outlen
bytes long.  
This memory is allocated by means of 
.Fn malloc
and the caller is responsible for freeing it after use.
The encryption is done with 
.Fa digest
as password and 0 as 
.Fa iv .  
The password should be the MD5 hash of the
actual password.
If
.Fa compress
is non-zero the data will be compressed and packed into a compressed
packet before encryption; this is usually a good idea.
.Pp
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If no errors are encountered, 0 is returned.
On failure, -1 is returned.
\.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr malloc 3
.Xr free 3
.Xr convential_key_encrypt 3
.Xr compress_buffer 3
.Xr PGPlib 3
.Sh HISTORY
Written by Tage Stabell-Kulø.  First appeared in PGPlib 0.1
.Sh WARNINGS
PGPlib does not supply an implementation of IDEA.  This code assumes
that SSL is used.  This might change.

.Sh STANDARDS
The resulting package (including the embedded compressed package) is
compatible with 
.Fa RFC1991 .
