.\"                                                                   
.\" Filename:      PGPlib.3
.\" Description:   
.\" Author:        Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" Modified at:   Sat Jan 24 19:48:30 1998
.\" Modified by:   Tage Stabell-Kuloe <tage@acm.org>
.\" 	
.\" 	Copyright (c) Univerity of Tromsø, Norway
.\" 	See the file COPYING for details
.\"                                                                   


.Dd January, 1998
.Dt PGPlib 3
.Os PGPlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm PGPlib
.Nd routines to manipulate data, RFC1991 compliant
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pgplib.h>
.Sh DESCRIPTION

These routines manipulates data, stored in so called
.Fa packets .
The library has only one global variable (see below).
Furthermore, in most cases the user is responsible for allocating
memory required by the library; for reasons of flexibility.
Only in those cases where it is impossible to know how much is needed
is memory allocated, by means of
.Fn malloc 3 .
\.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
In general, all routines return 0 (zero) if the operation suceeded, -1
if some error occured.
If the requested operation could not be performed, for example because
a key could not be found, 1 is returned.
When errors occur, the global variable 
.Fa pgplib_errno
is set.
A string describing the error can be found by indexing into
.Fa char *pgplib_errlist[]
in the usual way (see
.Fn strerror 3
for details).
.Pp

.Sh AVALIABILITY
The library and included applications are all available under
"Berkeley style" copyright terms.  Basically, this means that 
.Fa PGPlib
is FREE for commercial and non-comercial use, and that you can do
almost anything with the code.  The only thing you can not do is to
say that you wrote it.
.Pp
.Fa PGPlib
is available from ftp://dslab1.cs.uit.no/pub/PGPlib.tar.gz.
.Sh STANDARDS
Almost all pacjets described in RFC1991 can be read, and almost all
can be constructed.
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
This is release PGPlib-1.1.  Previous releases was 0.0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3,
1.0A, 1.0B and 1.0C.
