.\"                                                                   
.\" Filename:      sec_decrypt_packet.3
.\" Description:   
.\" Author:        Tage Stabell-Kuloe <tage@acm.org>
.\" Modified at:   Mon Dec  8 01:27:54 1997
.\" Modified by:   Tage Stabell-Kuloe <tage@acm.org>
.\" 	
.\" 	Copyright University of Tromsø (Norway)
.\" 	See the file COPYING for details
.\"                                                                   


.Dd December 8, 1997
.Dt DEC_DECRYPT_BUFFER 3
.Os PGPlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm dec_decrypt_buffer
.Nd decrypt a buffer with a secret key
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pgplib.h>
.Ft int
.Fn sec_decrypt_packet "PGPseckey_t  *key" "u_char *PKE_packet" "int pke_l" "u_char *conv_packet" "int conv_l" "u_char **outbuf" "int *outlen"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The buffer pointed to by 
.Fa conv_packet
(which is 
.Fa conv_l
bytes long) is assumed to hold a conventionally encrypted buffer.
The DEK containing the IDEA key, encrypted with a public key, is
pointed to by
.Fa PKE_packet
(and it is 
.Fa pke_l
bytes long).
The secret key needed to decrypt the packet holding the DEK is pointed
to by
.Fa key .
.Fa PKE_packet
is decrypted with
.Fa key.
If the key is the correct one, 
.Fa conv_packet
is decrypted with the IDEA key fond inside the DEK.
If the (IDEA) key is correct, the resulting packet is placed in a
buffer pointed to by 
.Fa outbuf .
This buffer i s
.Fa outlen
bytes long.
This buffer must be released.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If everything goes well, 0 is returned.
If an invalid packet is supplied, 1 is returned.
If either the secret key or the IDEA key is incorrect, 2 is returned.
If somne other error occurs, -1 is returned.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr compress_buffer PGPlib
.Xr pub_encrypt_buffer PGPlib
.Xr malloc 3
.Sh HISTORY
Written by Thomas Roessler <roessler@guug.de>.  First appeared in
PGPlib 0.3.