{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}{\f5\fswiss Helvetica;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;
\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \f3\fs16\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info
{\title Procedures, part 2}{\author Mark Riordan}{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy30\hr21\min18}{\version1}{\edmins104}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern16417}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 
\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \li180 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Subscribing_to_newsgroups}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 
$} Subscribing to Newsgroups}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Subscribing to Newsgroups}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li180\sl240 {\b\f4 What is "Subscribing"?}{\b\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 "Subscribing" to a }{\f4\ul newsgroup}{\v\f4 newsgroup}{\f4  means telling a }{\f4\ul news reader}{\v\f4 news_reader}{\f4 
 that you are interested in tracking, selecting, and viewing articles in that group.  Most news readers support the concept of "subscribing" to newsgroups as a means of simplifying the way that you interact with the news reader.  There are probably over 1
}{\f4 000 newsgroups in which you are not interested; if you are not subscribed to these newgroups, a news reader need not bother prompting you with information on these groups.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }{\f4 WinVN also supports the concept of subscribing to a newsgroup, but primarily as a }{\f4 
means of providing compatibility with other news readers.  WinVN's windowed, point-and-click interface makes it less necessary for it to resort to the somewhat artificial distinction between newsgroups in which you are interested and newsgroups in which y
}{\f4 ou are not interested.  You can always access any newsgroup simply by scrolling to its name and clicking on it.  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Subscribing to New Newsgroups}{\b\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 When WinVN starts up, it can check the }{\f4\ul news server}{\v\f4 news_server}{\f4  to see if any new groups have been created si}{\f4 nce your last session.  (See }{\f4\uldb Configuring WinVN}{\v\f4 configuring_winvn}{\f4 
.)  If WinVN checks and finds that new newsgroups do exist, it displays their names in a scrollable list in a dialog box.  You select the groups to which you want to subscribe by clicking on their names.  When you have finished making your selections, cli
}{\f4 ck on the }{\b\f4 OK}{\f4  button.  Alternatively, you can click on the }{\b\f4 Cancel}{\f4  button and WinVN will ignore the new newsgroups altogether.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Subscribing to Existing Newsgroups}{\b\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Newsgroups to which you are }{\f4 subscribed are displayed in black at the top of the }{\f4\uldb main window}{\v\f4 main_window}{\f4 .  Following these groups are all of the unsubscribed group names, in red and sorted alphabetically.  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 You subscribe and unsubscribe to newsgroups by selecting them in the main window and using }{\f4\uldb Group Menu Commands}{\v\f4 group_menu_commands}{\f4 
.  Select groups by clicking on their names.  A selected group appears in reverse video (black background).  The }{\b\f4 Subscribe selected groups}{\f4 , }{\b\f4 Unsubscribe selected groups}{\f4 , and }{\b\f4 Move selected groups to Top}{\f4 
 menu options operate on all currently selected newsgroups.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
Subscribing to a newsgroup moves its name to the bottom of the list of subscribed groups in the top portion of the main window.  Unsubscribing to a newsgroup causes it to be moved to its proper alphabetical place in the unsubscribed portion of the main wi
}{\f4 ndow.}{\f4 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Authorizing_yourself_to_the_news_server}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} 
Authorizing Yourself to the News Server}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Authorizing Yourself to the News Server}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Authorizing Yourself to the News Server}{\f4 
\par }{\f5 
\par }{\f5 Some Usenet }{\f5\ul news server}{\f5 s require you to present a us}{\f5 ername and password in order to gain access to certain features.  For instance, you may need a username and password to be able to post to any }{\f5\ul newsgroup}{\v\f4 
newsgroup}{\f5 , or to be able to read certain newsgroups.  The process of providing a username and password, and the subsequent checking done by the server, is called "authorizing".  }{\f5 
\par }{\f5 
\par }{\f5 WinVN supports the AUTHINFO }{\f5\ul NNTP}{\v\f5\ul NNTP}{\f5  command for authorization.  You can provide a username and password; see Configure Comm... under }{\b\f4\uldb Options Menu Commands}{\b\f4 .  }{\b\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
If you have saved a username as part of your WinVN configuration, when WinVN is launched, it attempts to authorize you with the news server.  If you have saved a password as well, WinVN provides the username and password to the news server without prompti
}{\f4 ng you.  If you have saved a username but have left the password field empty, WinVN brings up the Configure Comm... dialog box to allow you to enter your password before completing authorization.  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 If you choose to save your news server password, WinVN e}{\f4 
ncrypts it before recording it in the configuration file.  However, given the availability of WinVN source code, a determined attacker with access to your configuration file could decrypt your password without too much effort.  Therefore, for the best sec
}{\f4 urity, force WinVN to always prompt you for the password by never saving the password, as described above.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Note that because WinVN attempts to authorize you to the server only when WinVN is launched, you cannot be authorized the very first time you run W}{\f4 inVN.  You must configure your username, click on "OK & Save", exit WinVN, and restart it.}{\f5 

\par }}