.\"
.\" pgpe.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Pretty Good Privacy, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" $Id: pgpe.1,v 1.1.2.3.2.2 1997/07/08 19:32:36 quark Exp $
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pgpe.1
.\"
.TH PGP 5.0 "JULY 1997 (v5.0)" PGP "User Manual"
.SH NAME
pgpe \- Encrypts and signs messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pgpe -r <recipient> [-s [-u <myid>]] [-aftz]\p
.BI [-o " <outfile>" "]
.I file
.B ...
.br

.B pgpe -c [-aftz]
.BI [-o " outfile"]
.I file
.B ...
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pgpe
encrypts and signs files using public key cryptography, or encrypts
files using conventional cryptography.
.SH OPTIONS
All configuration options can be controlled from the command line.
See
.BR pgp.cfg (5)
for a complete list and how to specify them.
.IP "-a, --armor"
Turn on "ASCII Armoring."  This outputs a text-only version of your
encrypted text.  This makes the result safe for mailing, but about 30%
larger.
.IP -c
Conventional encrypting mode.  This uses IDEA to encrypt your
message.  As IDEA is a symmetric cipher, no public-key related
arguments
.BR "" ( -r ,
.B -s
and
.BR -u )
are accepted with this argument.
.IP -f
Stream mode.  Accepts input on
.I stdin
and places output on
.IR stdout.
If no files are specified as arguments, pgp executes in this mode by
default.
.IP "-o outfile"
Specifies that output should go to
.IR outfile .
If not specified, output goes to the default filename.  The default
filename for each input file is the input filename with ".pgp"
appended, unless ASCII Armoring is turned on, in which case it is
".asc".  It is an error to specify multiple input files with this
option.
.IP -s
Sign the document as well as encrypting it.  If you wish to sign
only, use
.BR pgps (1).
This will use your default signing key, or the ID of the key specified
with the
.B -u
option.
.IP -t
Turns on text mode.  This causes PGP to convert your input message to
a platform-independent form.  It is primarily for use when moving
files from one operating system to another.
.IP -u
Sets the ID of the key used for signing.  This may be a user ID (such as
.BR foo@bar.baz.com )
or a Key ID (such as
.BR 0x12345678 ).
Specifying this switch without specifying
.B -s
(sign) does nothing.
.IP -z
Batch mode.  See
.BR pgp-integration (7)
for a discussion of integrating pgp support into your application.
.SH EXAMPLE
.I pgpe -r foo@bar.baz.com -sat document.txt
.RS
Signs and encrypts the file
.I document.txt
with ASCII Armoring and text mode on to
.BR foo@bar.baz.com 's
key.  The resultant file will be
.IR document.txt.asc .
.RE
.SH FILES
.I ~/.pgp/pgp.cfg
.RS
User-specific configuration file.  In previous releases, this file was
called
.IR config.txt .
See
.BR pgp.cfg (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.RS
See
.BR pgp (1).
.BE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pgp (1),
.BR pgpv (1),
.BR pgps (1),
.BR pgpk (1),
.BR pgp.cfg (5),\p
.BR pgp-integration (7),
http://www.pgp.com (US versions)
and
http://www.pgpi.com (International versions)
