.\"
.\" pgps.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Pretty Good Privacy, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" $Id: pgps.1,v 1.1.2.4.2.2 1997/07/08 19:32:37 quark Exp $
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pgpe.1
.\"
.TH PGP 5.0 "JULY 1997 (v5.0)" PGP "User Manual"
.SH NAME
pgps \- Signs messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pgps [-u <userid>] [-abftv] [-z|-zs]
.BI [-o " <outfile>" ]\p
.I file
.B ...
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pgps
signs files using public key cryptography.
.SH OPTIONS
All configuration options can be controlled from the command line.
See
.BR pgp.cfg (5)
for a complete list and how to specify them.

.IP "-a, --armor"
Turn on "ASCII Armoring."  This outputs a text-only version of your
encrypted text.  This makes the result safe for mailing, but about 30%
larger.  Unlike previous versions of PGP, this also implicitly turns
on clearsigning (wrapping the signature around your message, leaving
your message in a readable form).
.IP -b
Detached signature.  Creates a detached signature file (by default,
.IR file.sig )
instead of combining the signature with the message in
the same file.
.IP -f
Stream mode.  Accepts input on
.I stdin
and places output on
.IR stdout.
If no files are specified as arguments, pgp executes in this mode by
default.
.IP "-o outfile"
Specifies that output should go to
.IR outfile .
If not specified, output goes to the default filename.  The default
filename for each input file is the input filename with ".pgp"
appended, unless ASCII Armoring is turned on, in which case it is
".asc".  If
.B -b
(detached signature) is specified, the output name for the
signature is the input file with ".sig" appended.  It is an error to
specify multiple input files with this option.
.IP -t
Turns on text mode.  This causes PGP to convert your input message to
a platform-independent form.  It is primarily for use when moving
files from one operating system to another.
.IP -u
Sets the ID of the key used for signing.  This may be a user ID (like
.BR foo@bar.baz.com )
or a Key ID (like
.BR 0x12345678 ).
If not specified, your default signing key is used.  See also the
.B MyName
directive in
.BR pgp.cfg (5).
.IP -z
Batch mode.  See
.BR pgp-integration (7)
for a discussion of integrating pgp support into your application.
.SH EXAMPLE
.I pgps -u foo@bar.baz.com -bat document.txt
.RS
Creates a detached, ASCII Armored signature for the the file
Signs and encrypts the file
.I document.txt
with
.BR foo@bar.baz.com 's
key.  The resultant file will be
.IR document.txt.sig .
.RE
.SH FILES
.I ~/.pgp/pgp.cfg
.RS
User-specific configuration file.  The file formerly known as
config.txt.  See
.BR pgp.cfg (5)
for further details.
.RE
.RE
.SH BUGS
.RS
See
.BR pgp (1).
.BE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pgp (1),
.BR pgpv (1),
.BR pgpe (1),
.BR pgpk (1),
.BR pgp.cfg (5),\p
.BR pgp-integration (7),
http://www.pgp.com (US versions)
and
http://www.pgpi.com (International versions)
