{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Times;}{\f4\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f5\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f6\fswiss Helv;}{\f7\fmodern Courier New;}
{\f8\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f9\fmodern Courier;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote text;}{\s246\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{\s247\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f8\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{\s250\li720\sb80\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\fi-245\li360\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon253\snext251 heading 4;}{\s252\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 
\snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \snext10 heading 1;}{\s255\li360\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal Indent;}{\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-240\li600\sb60\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 
\snext2 Jli;}{\s3\li120\sb60\sl-240\keep\tx520\tx920\tx1320\tx1720\tx2120 \f9\fs16\lang1033 \snext3 Ex;}{\s4\li120\sb160\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa1;}{\s5\fi-240\li360\sl-240\tx360 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb1;}{
\s6\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240\tx360 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb2;}{\s7\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lp1;}{\s8\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Th;}{
\s9\li115\sb60\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Tp;}{\s10\li120\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal 2;}{\s11\li120\sb120\sa120 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 bitmap;}{\s12\li120\sb120\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa2;}{\s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240 
\f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Jl;}{\s14\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th2;}{\s15\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 
\b\f8\fs16\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th3;}{\s16\li115\sb200\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 Normal 3;}{\s17\fi-1800\li1915\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1915 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext18 Thh;}{\s18\fi-1800\li1915\sb60\sl-240\tx1915 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext18 Tph;}{\s19 \f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext19 Help;}{\s20 \b\f4\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext20 Help Title;}{\s21 \b\f4\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon20\snext21 Help Subtitle;}}{\info{\title Procedures}{\subject WinVN procedures}{\author Mark Riordan}{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy29\hr22\min22}{\version1}{\edmins874}{\nofpages11}{\nofwords68546}{\nofchars82703}{\vern16417}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj {\*\template C:\\WINWORD\\WHAT31.DOT}\sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Posting_an_article}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Posting an Article}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Posting an Article}} Posting an Article
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 You can {\ul post}{\v posting} an {\ul article}{\v article} either as a followup to a previous article, or as a "brand new" article.  Note that often it is preferable to respond to an article via an {\ul 
electronic mail message}{\v electronic_mail_message} rather than by another article; see {\uldb Usenet Etiquette}{\v usenet_etiquette} and {\uldb Mailing a Message}{\v mailing_a_message}.
\par An article contains a {\ul header}{\v header} followed by the text of the article.  Each article is directed to one or more {\ul newsgroups}{\v newsgroup}
 by a "Newsgroups:" line in the header.  If you want to send an article to more than one newsgroup, type the names of the newsgroups on the "Newsgroups:" line, separated by commas.  The text of an article is separated from the header by a blank line.

\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 Followup Articles
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 A {\ul followup}{\v followup} article has the same "Subject:" line as the article which inspired it.  (The notation "Re:" is added.)  This makes it easier for other {\uldb Usenet News}{\v usenet_news}
 users browsing the newsgroup to follow the discussion.  Also, a followup article typically selectively quotes the earlier article, again to make the discussion easier to follow.
\par You start composing a followup article by selecting the Followup Article option of an {\uldb article window's}{\v articl}{\v e_window} Respond menu.  (See {\uldb Respond Menu Commands}{\v respond_menu_commands}.)  WinVN creates a {\uldb posting window}{
\v posting_window}.  The {\ul header}{\v header} of the article in this window is filled in with information taken from WinVN configuration options and from the header of the referenced article.  (See {\uldb Configuring WinVN}{\v configuring_winvn}
.)  The full text of the referenced article is also included in the posting window, with each line preceded by a ">" to indicate that another article is being quoted.  
\par Fill in the text of your response.  You should delete irrelevant quoted lines in your followup article.  
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 New Articles
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 You start composing a "brand new" article by selecting the New posting option from the Articles menu of a {\uldb group window}{\v group_window}.  (See {\uldb Articles Menu Commands}{\v 
articles_menu_commands}.)  WinVN creates a {\uldb posting window}{\v posting_window}
 for your new article.  The "Newsgroup:" line contains the name of the newsgroup of the group window; you can edit this if necessary.  Other information is based on the way you configured WinVN.
\par You must fill in an appropriate subject for the new article.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 Sending the Article
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 When you have completed composing your article, you can send it to the network or cancel it.  See {\uldb Posting Menu Commands}{\v posting_menu_commands}
.  After you have posted the article, you can close the posting window.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Mailing_a_message}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {
\fs16\up6 $} Mailing a Message}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Mailing a Message}} Mailing a Message
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 You can use WinVN to send an {\ul electronic mail message}{\v electronic_mail_message} either as a personal reply to the author of an article, or as an independent message.  
\par A message contains a {\ul header}{\v header}
 followed by the text of the message.  A message is directed to one or more recipients by a "To:" line in the header.  If you want to send a message to more than one person, type the electronic mail addresses of the recipients on the "To:" line, separated
 by commas.  The text of a message is separated from the header by a blank line.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 Reply Messages
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 A reply message has the same "Subjec
t:" line as the article which inspired it.  (The notation "Re:" is added.)   Also, a reply message typically selectively quotes the article which inspired it, to give some context to the recipient.
\par You start composing a reply message by selecting the via Mail option of an {\uldb article window's}{\v article_window} Respond menu.  See {\uldb Respond Menu Commands}{\v respond_menu_commands}.  WinVN creates a {\uldb mail window}{\v mail_window}.  The {
\ul header}{\v header} of the message in this window is filled in with information taken from WinVN configuration options and from the header of the referenced article.  (See {\uldb Configuring WinVN}{\v configuring_winvn}
.)  The full text of the referenced article is also included in this window, with each line preceded by a ">" to indicate that an article is being quoted.  
\par Fill in the text of your message.  You should delete irrelevant quoted lines. 
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 New Messages
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 You start composing a "brand new" message--one that does not reference an article--by selecting the Compose mail message option from the Optionss menu of the {\uldb m}{\uldb ain window}{\v main_window}
.  (See {\uldb Config Menu Commands}{\v config_menu_commands}.)  WinVN creates a {\uldb mail window}{\v mail_window} for your new article.  Your name and organization are filled in based on the way you configured WinVN.
\par You must fill in an appropriate subject for the new article on the "Subject:" line, and a recipient on the "To:" line.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 Sending the Message
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 When you have completed composing your message, you can send it or cancel it.  See {\uldb Mail Menu Commands}{\v mail_menu_commands}.  After you have sent the message, you can close the mail window.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Subscribing_to_newsgroups}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Subscribing to Newsgroups}} Subscribing to Newsgroups
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 What is "Subscribing"?
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 "Subscribing" to a {\ul newsgroup}{\v newsgroup} means telling a {\ul news reader}{\v news_reader}
 that you are interested in tracking, selecting, and viewing articles in that group.  Most news readers support the concept of "subscribing" to newsgroups as a means of simplifying the way that you interact with the news reader.  There are probably over 3
000 newsgroups in which you are not interested; if you are not subscribed to these newgroups, a news reader need not bother prompting you with information on these groups.
\par WinVN also supports the concept of subscribing to a newsgroup, but primarily as a me
ans of providing compatibility with other news readers.  WinVN's windowed, point-and-click interface makes it less necessary for it to resort to the somewhat artificial distinction between newsgroups in which you are interested and newsgroups in which you
 are not interested.  You can always access any newsgroup simply by scrolling to its name and clicking on it.  
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 Subscribing to New Newsgroups
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 When WinVN starts up, it can check the {\ul news server}{\v news_server} to see if any new groups have been created since your last session.  (See {\uldb Configuring WinVN}{\v configuring_winvn}
.)  If WinVN checks and finds that new newsgroups do exist, it displays their names in a scrollable list in a dialog box.  You select the groups to which you want to subscribe by clicking on their names.  When you have finished making your selections, cli
ck on the OK button.  Alternatively, you can click on the Cancel button and WinVN will ignore the new newsgroups altogether.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 Subscribing to Existing Newsgroups
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 Newsgroups to which you are subscribed are displayed in black at the top of the {\uldb main window}{\v main_window}
.  Following these groups are all of the unsubscribed group names, in red and sorted alphabetically.  
\par You subscribe and unsubscribe to newsgroups by selecting them in the main window and using {\uldb Group Menu Commands}{\v group_menu_commands}
.  Select groups by clicking on their names.  A selected group appears in reverse video (black background).  The Subscribe selected groups, Unsubscribe selected groups, and Move selected groups to Top menu options o
perate on all currently selected newsgroups.
\par Subscribing to a newsgroup moves its name to the bottom of the list of subscribed groups in the top portion of the main window.  Unsubscribing to a newsgroup causes it to be moved to its proper alphabetical place in the unsubscribed portion of the main wi
ndow.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Marking_Articles_as_Read}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Marking Articles as Read}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Marking Articles as Read}} Marking Articles as Read
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Catching Up}}{\f4 Normally, WinVN keeps track }{\f4 of which articles you have read.  (See }{\f4\uldb Group Window}
{\v\f4 group_window}{\f4 
.)  Sometimes, you may want WinVN to think that you have read articles when you have not.  You may have read the articles with another newsreader or with a different copy of WinVN, or you may have been on vacation and want to ignore the articles that accu
}{\f4 mulated in a }{\f4\ul newsgroup}{\v\f4 newsgroup}{\f4  while you were away.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 You can manually mark articles in a group as having been read by double-clicking the right mouse button on an article in the Group Window.  This marks all articles from the beginn}{\f4 ing of the newsgroup to the cursor as having been read.}{\f4 

\par }To toggle the "read" status of a single article in a group, point the mouse cursor at the article subject and click on the middle mouse button.  You can also hold the shift key down and use the left mouse button.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Authorizing_yourself_to_the_news_server}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Authorizing Yourself to the News Server}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Authorizing Yourself to the News Server}}
 Authorizing Yourself to the News Server
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 Some Usenet }{\f4\ul news server}{\f4 s}{\v\f4 news_server}{\f4 
 require you to present a username and password in order to gain access to certain features.  For instance, you may need a username and password to be able to post to any }{\f4\ul newsgroup}{\v newsgroup}{\f4 
, or to be able to read certain newsgroups.  The process of providing a username and password, and the subsequent checking done by the server, is called "authorizing".  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 WinVN supports the AUTHINFO }{\f4\ul NNTP}{\v\f4\ul NNTP}{\f4  command for authorization.  You can provide a username and password; see Configure Comm... under }{\uldb Config Menu Commands}{\v config_menu_commands}.  
\par If you have saved a username as part of your WinVN configuration, when WinVN is launched, it attempts to authorize you with the news server.  If you have saved a password as well, WinVN provides the username and password to the news server without prompti
ng you.  If you have saved a username but have left the password field empty, WinVN brings up the Configure Comm... dialog box to allow you to enter your password before completing authorization.  
\par If you choose
 to save your news server password, WinVN encrypts it before recording it in the configuration file.  However, given the availability of WinVN source code, a determined attacker with access to your configuration file could decrypt your password without to
o much effort.  Therefore, for the best security, force WinVN to always prompt you for the password by never saving the password, as described above.
\par Note that because WinVN attempts to authorize you to the server only when WinVN is launched, you cannot be authorized the very first time you run WinVN.  You must configure your username, click on "OK & Save", exit WinVN, and restart it.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Getting_WinVN}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {
\fs16\up6 $} Getting a Copy of WinVN}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Getting a Copy of WinVN}} Getting a Copy of WinVN
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 WinVN is distributed via anonymous FTP from the hosts  }{\f7 titan.ksc.nasa.gov}{\f4   and  }{\f7 ripem.msu.edu}{\f4 .  The definitive version is always on  }{\f7 titan}{\f4 
.  Copies of WinVN can often be found at other sites, but they are sometimes badly out-of-date.  (The  }{\f7 ripem}{\f4   site  tends to lag behind  }{\f7 t}{\f7 itan}{\f4   by a day or so.)}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
Both source code and binaries for various platforms are distributed.  Sam Rushing's implementation of a generalized Winsock DLL has reduced the previous need to have a number of different versions of WinVN, one for each vendor's networking product.  Howev
}{\f4 er, WinVN can still be compiled for several different targets, including Windows NT on Intel and Alpha AXP machines.  Distributions are in the form of }{\f7 .ZIP}{\f4  files; be sure to use binary mode FTP to do the transfer.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 As of this writing}{\f4 , WinVN source code distributions have file names starting with }{\f7 WINVNSRC}{\f4 ,  binary distributions for Winsock (a Windows networking API supported by a number of TCP/IP vendors) have names starting with }{\f7 WINVN}{
\f4 , and binary distributions for DEC Pathworks have names starting with }{\f7 WINVNPWK}{\f4 .  See the FTP sites for other files. }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Here is a sample FTP session.  User-typed entries are in }{\b\f4 bold}{\f4 .}{\f4 
\par }{\f7 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\li288\sl-240\keep\tx520\tx920\tx1320\tx1720\tx2120 \f9\fs16\lang1033 $ {\b ftp titan.ksc.nasa.gov}
\par ftp: connect to address 128.159.1.1: Host is unreachable
\par Trying 128.159.4.20...
\par Connected to titan.ksc.nasa.gov.
\par 220 TITAN.KSC.NASA.GOV MultiNet FTP Server Process ...
\par Name (titan.ksc.nasa.gov:mrr): {\b anonymous}
\par 331 anonymous user ok. Send real ident as password.
\par Password: {\b fred}
\par 230-Guest User FRED logged into DISK$SHARE:[ANONYMOUS] at ...
\par 230 Directory and access restrictions apply
\par ftp> {\b binary}
\par 200 Type I ok.
\par ftp> {\b cd [.pub.win3.winvn]}
\par 250 Connected to DISK$SHARE:[ANONYMOUS.PUB.WIN3.WINVN].
\par ftp> {\b dir}
\par 200 Port 9.250 at Host {\i\f3 ww.xx.yy.zz} accepted.
\par 150 List started.
\par 
\par DISK$SHARE:[ANONYMOUS.PUB.WIN3.WINVN]
\par 
\par WINVNPWK083_2.ZIP;2       170   8-DEC-1993 19:35 [NASA,DUMOULIN]
\par WINVNSRC083_2.ZIP;1       657   8-DEC-1993 15:14 [NASA,DUMOULIN]
\par WINVNSTD083_2.ZIP;1       167   8-DEC-1993 15:15 [NASA,DUMOULIN]
\par WINVN_DOC.ZIP;1           192  23-FEB-1993 11:33 [NASA,DUMOULIN]
\par ...
\par ftp> {\b get winvnstd083_2.zip}
\par 200 Port 10.196 at Host {\i\f3 ww.xx.yy.zz} accepted.
\par 150 IMAGE retrieve of DISK$SHARE:[ANONYMOUS.PUB.WIN3.WINVN]WINVN...
\par 226 Transfer completed.  {\i\f3 xxxxx} (8) bytes transferred.
\par ...
\par ftp> {\b quit}
\par $ 
\par \pard \s3\li120\sb60\sl-240\keep\tx520\tx920\tx1320\tx1720\tx2120 {\f6 
\par }\pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\f5\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Configuring WinVN}} {\f5\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} configuring_winvn}} {\f5\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Configuring WinVN}} Configuring WinVN
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 Before you use WinVN to read news, you must give it the information it needs to contact the {\ul news server}{\v news_server}, send {\uldb electronic mail}{\v electronic_mail_message}
, and so on.   In addition, you can configure WinVN with personal preferences, such as the colors and fonts it uses, how many article titles should be automatically fetched at once, and so on.  
\par All configuration commands are accessible from the Config menu of the {\uldb main window}{\v main_window}.  See {\uldb Config Menu Commands}{\v config_menu_commands}.
\par By default, configuration information is written to the file {\f7 WINVN.INI}{\f4  in the current directory}{\f7 .}  The curious may wish to examine this file with a text editor.  See {\uldb Invoking WinVN}{\v invoking_winvn}.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Invoking WinVN}} {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} Invoking_WinVN}} {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} command line}} Invoking WinVN
\par \pard\plain \s10\li120\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configuring WinVN}}
 WinVN is typically invoked by double-clicking on an icon in Program Manager; however, WinVN can be invoked via the {\b File/Run...} menu command or by any other mechanism that can be used to start a Windows program.
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 When WinVN starts, it looks for two files:  WINVN.INI{\fs18\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} WINVN.INI}}
 , which contains configuration and customization information, and {\uldb NEWSRC}{\v newsrc}.{\fs18\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} newsrc}}  By default, WinVN looks in the current directory for thes
e files.  However, there are ways of specifying alternate locations for these files.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 WINVN Command Line
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 You can pass command line arguments to WinVN to tell it where to locate your WINVN.INI and NEWSRC files.  The format of the command line is:
\par    WINVN  IniFile  NewsrcFile
\par         or
\par    WINVN  Path
\par In the first case, WinVN will take IniFile to be the filename--including path specification--of the initialization file.  If IniFile is just a directory name, WinVN will look for the file named WINVN.INI in that directory.  Similarly, WinVN takes the seco
nd argument, NewsrcFile, as a filename for the news history file.  If NewsrcFile is just a directory name, WinVN will look for the file named NEWSRC in that directory.
\par If, as in the second case, WinVN is run with one argument, WinVN will use it as a directory name for both the WINVN.INI and NEWSRC files.
\par (Actually, this is a simplified description of how WinVN searches for these files.  For a complete description, curious readers are referred to the source code file {\f7 ini}{\f7 \_}{\f7 news.c}.)
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 WINVN Environment Variable
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 Alternatively, you can set an environment variable to
 tell WinVN where to look for these two files.  Set the environment variable WINVN to the directory in which both the WINVN.INI and NEWSRC files can be found.  For instance:
\par {\f7    SET WINVN=F:}{\f7 \\}{\f7 FRED}
\par The WinVN environment variable must be set before windows starts up.  Every DOS shell within Windows maintains its own seperate copy of the environment.  Windows only looks at the environment that existed at startup.  
\par On a PC LAN, an administrator can add code in the login script to set the WINVN environment var
iable to the unique location of a user's WINVN.INI file (on a network drive).  For those using multiple news servers, you can have multiple icons from within Windows and they have command line arguments set.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 Summary of WinVN's Search for WINVN.INI and NEWSRC
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 Winvn uses the following search mechanism to find the WINVN.INI file:
\par           Command line    (e.g.,   {\f7 n:}{\f7 \\}{\f7 winvn}{\f7 \\}{\f7 winvn.exe u:}{\f7 \\}{\f7 winvn.ini u:}{\f7 \\}{\f7 newsrc})
\par           WINVN Environment variable
\par           Application startup directory
\par           Windows Directory
\par           Windows System Directory
\par           DOS search path
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Using the Mouse in the Group Window}} {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} using_the_mouse_in_the_group_window}} {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Group_window}}
 Using the Mouse in the Group Window
\par \pard\plain \li180\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\f6 
From the Newsgroup window,  clicking the mouse anywhere on the window while a network operation is in progress will update the information on the screen with the current downloaded information.  Once all the article header information has been downloaded 
}{\f6 and the Newsgroup window is fully populated, the mouse operations are:}{\f6 
\par }{\f6 
\par }\pard \fi-2880\li3240\sb80\sl-240\tx3240 {\b Mouse Left}\tab Mark/Unmark an article for further consideration
\par {\b Drag Mouse Left}{\b \tab }Mark/Unmark multiple articles 
\par {\b Mouse Double-Click Left}\tab Select article for viewing
\par 
\par {\b Mouse Middle}\tab Toggle the read/unread state of an article
\par {\b Drag Mouse Middle}\tab Toggle read/unread state of multiple articles
\par {\b Shift Mouse Left}{\b \tab }Same as Mouse Middle
\par 
\par {\b Mouse Right}\tab Reserved for future popup article menu\tab \tab 
\par {\b Mouse Double-Click Right}\tab Mark all articles above this one as "seen".
\par \pard \li120\sb80\sl-240 
\par }