{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;
\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \f3\fs16\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\s246\li720 \i\f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{
\s247\li720 \i\f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720 \i\f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720 \f3\fs20\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{\s250\li720 \b\f3\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\li360 \f3\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 4;}{\s252\li360 \b\f3\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 3;}{\s253\sb120 \b\f4\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\sb240 \b\f4\ul\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s255\li720 \f3\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 Normal Indent;}{\f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\author Mark Riordan}{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy29\hr20\min59}{\version1}{\edmins102}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}
{\nofchars65536}{\vern16417}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj {\*\template C:\\WINWORD\\WHAT31.DOT}\sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \li180 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Article_window}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Article Window}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Article Window}}{\f4  }{
\b\f4 Article Window}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 An article window displays the text of an }{\f4\ul article}{\v\f4\ul article}{\f4 .  The article is initially positioned in the scrollable window to the beginning of the article text, with the article }{\f4\ul header}{\v\f4 header}{\f4 
 scrolled out of sight.  (If you scroll the window manually during the short time that the article is being retrieved from the }{\f4\ul news server}{\v\f4 news_server}{\f4 , the article is not repositioned.)}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4\uldb File Menu Commands}{\v\f4\uldb File_menu_commands}{\f4\uldb 
\par }{\f4\uldb View Menu Commands}{\v\f4\uldb View_menu_commands}{\f4\uldb 
\par }{\f4\uldb Respond Menu Commands}{\v\f4\uldb Respond_menu_commands}{\f4\uldb 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li360\tx360 {\f4 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} File_menu_commands}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} File Menu Commands}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} File Menu Commands}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 File Menu Commands}{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Save}{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 \tab }{\f4 Saves the }{\f4\ul article}{\v\f4 article}{\f4  in this}{\f4\uldb  Article Window}{\v\f4 article_window}{\f4  to a file.  The filename from the most recent }{\b\f4 Save As...}{\f4  is used.  If no }{\b\f4 Save As...}{\f4 
 has been done in this session, }{\b\f4 Save}{\f4  acts just like }{\b\f4 Save As...}{\f4 .}{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Save As...}{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 \tab }{\f4 Brings up a dialog box asking the user for a file name to which the current article should be saved.  The dialog box also contains a check box labelled }{\b\f4 Append to this file}{\f4 
.  If this box is checked, WinVN will write the article to the end of the specified file.  Otherwise, WinVN will overwrite the file with the article.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Press }{\b\f4 OK}{\f4  to actually sa}{\f4 ve the article; press }{\b\f4 Cancel}{\f4  if you have changed your mind about saving the article.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Exit}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Closes this window.}{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} View_menu_commands}}{\b\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} View Menu Commands}}{\b\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} View Menu Commands}}{\b\f4  View Menu Commands}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Next Article}{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 \tab }{\f4 Causes WinVN to fetch and display the next article in this }{\f4\ul newsgroup}{\v\f4 newsgroup}{\f4 .  If there is no next article, WinVN says so.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Next with same Subject}{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 \tab }{\f4 Causes WinVN to search the subsequent articles in this newsgroup for an article with the same subject as the current articl}{\f4 
e.  (Leading "Re:" notations are ignored.)  If a matching article is found, it is retrieved and displayed in the current }{\f4\uldb Article Window}{\v\f4 article_window}{\f4 
.  Otherwise, WinVN informs you that there are no more articles with that subject.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Respond_menu_commands}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Respond Menu Commands}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Respond Menu Commands}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Respond Menu Commands}{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 Followup Article}{\b\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 \tab }{\f4 Creates a }{\f4\uldb Posting Window}{\v\f4 posting_window}{\f4  with the appropriate }{\f4\ul header}{\v\f4 header}{\f4  and text to compose an article that responds to the }{\f4\ul article}{\v\f4 article}{\f4  in the current }{
\f4\uldb Article Window}{\v\f4 article_window}{\f4 .  See }{\f4\uldb Posting an Article}{\v\f4 posting_an_article}{\f4 .}{\b\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 via Mail}{\f4 
\par }{\b\f4 \tab }{\f4 Creates a }{\f4\uldb Mail Window}{\v\f4 mail_window}{\f4  with the appropriate }{\f4\ul header}{\v\f4 header}{\f4  and text to compose an }{\f4\ul electronic mail message}{\v\f4 electronic_mail_message}{\f4 
 to the author of  the current article.  See }{\f4\uldb Mailing a Message}{\v\f4 mailing_a_message}{\f4 .}{\b\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li360 {\f4 \page }{\f4 
\par }}