

			 THE WHITE HOUSE

		  Office of the Press Secretary
				 
_________________________________________________________________
__

For Immediate Release                        April 16, 1993


		 STATEMENT BY THE PRESS SECRETARY


The President today announced a new initiative that will bring 
the Federal Government together with industry in a voluntary 
program to improve the security and privacy of telephone 
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law 
enforcement.

The initiative will involve the creation of new products to 
accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure 
telecommunications networks and wireless communications links.

For too long, there has been little or no dialogue between our 
private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the 
tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of 
protecting Americans.  Rather than use technology to accommodate 
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth, privacy and 
law enforcement, previous policies have pitted government against 
industry and the rights of privacy against law enforcement.

Sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to 
protect electronic funds transfer.  It is now being used to 
protect electronic mail and computer files.  While encryption 
technology can help Americans protect business secrets and the 
unauthorized release of personal information, it also can be used 
by terrorists, drug dealers, and other criminals.

A state-of-the-art microcircuit called the "Clipper Chip" has 
been developed by government engineers.  The chip represents a 
new approach to encryption technology.  It can be used in new, 
relatively inexpensive encryption devices that can be attached to 
an ordinary telephone.  It scrambles telephone communications 
using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in 
commercial use today.

This new technology will help companies protect proprietary 
information, protect the privacy of personal phone conversations 
and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted 
electronically.  At the same time this technology preserves the 
ability of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to 
intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals. 

A "key-escrow" system will be established to ensure that the 
"Clipper Chip" is used to protect the privacy of law-abiding 
Americans.  Each device containing the chip will have two unique




"keys," numbers that will be needed by authorized government 
agencies to decode messages encoded by the device.  When the 
device is manufactured, the two keys will be deposited separately 
in two "key-escrow" data bases that will be established by the 
Attorney General.  Access to these keys will be limited to 
government officials with legal authorization to conduct a 
wiretap.

The "Clipper Chip" technology provides law enforcement with no 
new authorities to access the content of the private 
conversations of Americans.

To demonstrate the effectiveness of this new technology, the 
Attorney General will soon purchase several thousand of the new 
devices.  In addition, respected experts from outside the 
government will be offered access to the confidential details of 
the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report 
their findings.

The chip is an important step in addressing the problem of 
encryption's dual-edge sword:  encryption helps to protect the 
privacy of individuals and industry, but it also can shield 
criminals and terrorists.  We need the "Clipper Chip" and other 
approaches that can both provide law-abiding citizens with access 
to the encryption they need and prevent criminals from using it 
to hide their illegal activities.  In order to assess technology 
trends and explore new approaches (like the key-escrow system), 
the President has directed government agencies to develop a 
comprehensive policy on encryption that accommodates:

	  the privacy of our citizens, including the need to 
	  employ voice or data encryption for business purposes;

	  the ability of authorized officials to access telephone 
	  calls and data, under proper court or other legal 
	  order, when necessary to protect our citizens;

	  the effective and timely use of the most modern 
	  technology to build the National Information 
	  Infrastructure needed to promote economic growth and 
	  the competitiveness of American industry in the global 
	  marketplace; and 

	  the need of U.S. companies to manufacture and export 
	  high technology products.

The President has directed early and frequent consultations with 
affected industries, the Congress and groups that advocate the 
privacy rights of individuals as policy options are developed.




The Administration is committed to working with the private 
sector to spur the development of a National Information 
Infrastructure which will use new telecommunications and computer 
technologies to give Americans unprecedented access to 
information.  This infrastructure of high-speed networks 
("information superhighways") will transmit video, images, HDTV 
programming, and huge data files as easily as today's telephone 
system transmits voice.

Since encryption technology will play an increasingly important 
role in that infrastructure, the Federal Government must act 
quickly to develop consistent, comprehensive policies regarding 
its use.  The Administration is committed to policies that 
protect all American's right to privacy while also protecting 
them from those who break the law.

Further information is provided in an accompanying fact sheet.  
The provisions of the President's directive to acquire the new 
encryption technology are also available.  

For additional details, call Mat Heyman, National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, (301) 975-2758.


