Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.society.foia,misc.activism.progressive
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!mont!pencil.cs.missouri.edu!rich
From: Dave Banisar <Banisar@washofc.cpsr.org>
Subject: CPSR Fights Crypto Secrecy (long)
Message-ID: <1993May18.214902.21085@mont.cs.missouri.edu>
Followup-To: alt.activism.d
Originator: rich@pencil.cs.missouri.edu
Sender: news@mont.cs.missouri.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: pencil.cs.missouri.edu
Organization: CPSR, Civil Liberties and Computing Project
Date: Tue, 18 May 1993 21:49:02 GMT
Approved: map@pencil.cs.missouri.edu
Lines: 388
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16574 alt.privacy.clipper:465 comp.org.eff.talk:17841 alt.society.foia:49 misc.activism.progressive:13612

Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility (CPSR) today
filed its brief in federal district court in Washington, DC,
challenging the NSA classification of information concerning
the development of the digital signature standard (DSS).  An
abbreviated version of CPSR's brief is reprinted below.  All
footnotes and certain citations have been omitted.

For information concerning CPSR's litigation activities, contact:

     David Sobel, CPSR Legal Counsel <dsobel@washofc.cpsr.org>

For information concerning CPSR generally, contact:

     <cpsr@csli.stanford.edu>
    
=============================================================

                   UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                   FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA


COMPUTER PROFESSIONALS FOR          )
  SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY,            )
                                    )
                     Plaintiff,     )
                                    )
          v.                        )    C.A. 92-0972-RCL 
                                    )
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS     )
  AND TECHNOLOGY, et al.,           )
                                    )
                     Defendants.    )
____________________________________)

              PLAINTIFF'S MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION TO 
       DEFENDANT'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND IN SUPPORT  OF
PLAINTIFF'S CROSS-MOTION FOR PARTIAL SUMMARY JUDGMENT

     Plaintiff filed this action on April 22, 1992, seeking the 
disclosure of documents withheld by defendants under the Freedom 
of Information Act ("FOIA"), 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552.  Defendants were 
granted a stay in proceedings to allow the National Security 
Agency ("NSA") to review the disputed documents.  Now defendants 
-- largely on behalf of NSA -- have moved for summary judgment and 
asked the Court to sustain their withholding of a substantial 
portion of the requested information.  Plaintiff opposes the 
government's motion and cross-moves for partial summary judgment.

                           Background

     In August 1991, plaintiff submitted a FOIA request to 
defendant National Institute of Standards and Technology ("NIST"), 
seeking copies of "all documentation and research materials" used 
or developed by NIST during its selection of a proposed digital 
signature standard.  

                 The Digital Signature Standard

     A digital signature is the result of a cryptographic process. 
It provides a means of authenticating the integrity of 
electronically transmitted data and the identity of the sender, 
much as a hand-written signature verifies the authenticity of a 
paper record.  On August 30, 1991, NIST announced its selection of 
a proposed digital signature standard ("DSS") that would be 
"applicable to all federal departments and agencies for the 
protection of unclassified information," and would be "intended 
for use in electronic mail, electronic funds transfer, electronic 
data interchange, software distribution, data storage, and other 
applications which require data integrity assurance and data 
origin authentication."  56 Fed. Reg. 42981 (August 30, 1991).

     In its Federal Register notice, NIST stated that it had 
selected the DSS after evaluating several alternatives and that 
the agency had "followed the mandate contained in section 2 of the 
Computer Security Act of 1987 that NIST develop standards and 
guidelines to ' ... assure the cost-effective security and privacy 
of sensitive information in Federal systems.'"
   
     The reference to the Computer Security Act, P.L. 100-235, was 
significant because, in enacting the statute, Congress sought to 
vest civilian computer security authority in NIST and to limit the 
role of NSA.  The legislation was passed in reaction to National 
Security Decision Directive ("NSDD") 145, which President Reagan 
issued in 1984.  The Presidential directive sought to grant NSA 
new powers to issue policies and develop standards for "the 
safeguarding of not only classified information, but also other 
information in the civilian agencies and private sector."  H. Rep. 
No. 153 (Part 2), 100th Cong., 1st Sess. 6 (1987).

                      Concerns About NSA's Role

     The House Report on the Computer Security Act notes that NSDD 
145 "raised considerable concern within the private sector and the 
Congress."  Id.  One of the principal objections to the directive 
was that 

       it gave NSA the authority to use its considerable 
       foreign intelligence expertise within this country.  
       This is particularly troubling since NSA was not created 
       by Congress, but by a secret presidential directive and 
       it has, on occasion, improperly targeted American 
       citizens for surveillance.
 
Id. at 6-7; see also The National Security Agency and Fourth 
Amendment Rights, Hearings Before the Senate Select Committee to 
Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence 
Activities, 94th Cong., 1st Sess. 2 (1975) (Congress has a 
"particular obligation to examine the NSA, in light of its 
tremendous potential for abuse. ... The danger lies in the ability 
of NSA to turn its awesome technology against domestic 
communications") (Statement of Sen. Church).

     When Congress enacted the Computer Security Act, it also 
expressed particular concern that NSA, a secretive military 
intelligence agency, would improperly limit public access to 
information concerning civilian computer security activities. 
H. Rep. No. 153 (Part 2), 100th Cong., 1st Sess. 21 (1987).  The 
House Report notes that NSA's 

       natural tendency to restrict and even deny access to 
       information that it deems important would disqualify 
       that agency from being put in charge of the protection 
       of non-national security information in the view of many 
       officials in the civilian agencies and the private 
       sector.
  
Id.
  
     To alleviate these concerns, Congress granted sole authority 
to the National Bureau of Standards (now NIST) to establish 
technical standards for civilian computer security.  During 
Congress' consideration of the legislation, "NSA opposed its 
passage and asserted that NSA should be in control of this 
nation's computer standards program."  Id. at 7.  Congress 
forthrightly rejected NSA's position, noting that

       [t]he proposals would have charged NSA with the task of 
       developing "technical guidelines," and forced [NIST] to 
       use these guidelines in issuing standards.

            Since work on technical security standards 
       represents virtually all of the research effort being 
       done today, NSA would take over virtually the entire 
       computer standards [program] from [NIST].   [NIST], in 
       effect, would on the surface be given the responsibility 
       for the computer standards program with little to say 
       about most of the program -- the technical guidelines 
       developed by NSA.

            This would jeopardize the entire Federal standards 
       program.

Id. at 25-26.

          NIST's Response to Plaintiff's FOIA Request

     Since the enactment of the Computer Security Act, plaintiff 
has sought to monitor the agencies' compliance with its 
provisions.  In keeping with those efforts, plaintiff requested 
relevant information from NIST concerning its development of the 
DSS -- the agency's first proposed computer security standard 
since passage of the legislation.
  
     In response to plaintiff's FOIA request, defendant NIST 
initially withheld all responsive documents.  The agency claimed 
that the material was "advisory and predecisional in nature," and 
that "some of the materials pertain to pending patent 
applications."  NIST made no reference to NSA or any other agency, 
despite Commerce Department regulations providing for the prompt 
referral of documents to other interested agencies and 
notification to the requester of such referral.
  
     Plaintiff appealed NIST's decision to defendant Department of 
Commerce on October 1, 1991, but did not receive a determination 
of the appeal until June 22, 1992 -- two months after the filing 
of this action.  For the first time, defendants acknowledged that 
documents responsive to plaintiff's request originated at, or 
related to, the National Security Agency.  Then, in support of 
their motion to stay proceedings, defendants revealed that the 
vast majority of responsive documents fell within the disclosure 
authority of NSA; 142 pages were within NIST's jurisdiction while 
1,138 pages were under the control of NSA.  

               NSA's Role in Developing the DSS

     As the foregoing demonstrates, defendants initially sought to 
conceal NSA's involvement in developing the proposed DSS.  The 
Federal Register announcement of the proposed standard made no 
mention of NSA, and the fact that the vast majority of relevant 
documents was under the control of NSA was not disclosed until 
after the initiation of this litigation.  On April 22, 1993 (the 
day defendants filed their summary judgment motion), NIST released 
to plaintiff a number of documents that provide more insight into 
the role NSA played in the development process.
  
     The documents -- released in heavily redacted form at NSA's 
behest -- suggest that NSA dictated the selection of the digital 
signature standard in contravention of Congress' clear intent, as 
described above.  For instance, a document dated March 26, 1990, 
states that NSA provided NIST with two documents during an inter-
agency working group meeting.

       The first, classified CONFIDENTIAL, contained NSA's 
       proposal to NIST containing a cryptographic algorithm 
       and a hashing function which can be used as bases for an 
       unclassified standard for digital signatures used by the 
       U.S. Government. ...

       The second document, classified TOP SECRET CODEWORD, was 
       a position paper which discussed reasons for the 
       selection of the algorithms identified in the first 
       document.  This document is available at NSA for review 
       by properly cleared senior NIST officials.

     This material suggests that the development process may have 
become precisely what Congress sought to avoid when it rejected 
NSA's legislative proposal that "[NIST], in effect, would on the 
surface be given the responsibility for the computer standards 
program with little to say about most of the program -- the 
technical guidelines developed by NSA."  H. Rep. No. 153 (Part 2), 
100th Cong., 1st Sess. 26 (1987).

     There is substantial public interest in the emerging issues 
surrounding civilian cryptography, generally, and in these 
documents, specifically.  The New York Times recently reported on 
the information plaintiff has obtained through this litigation and 
highlighted the issue of whether NSA is acting in compliance with 
the Computer Security Act.  Markoff, U.S. as Big Brother of 
Computer Age, New York Times, May 6, 1993, at D1.  See also 
Directive Issued to Create New Classification Order, Access 
Reports, May 12, 1993, at 1-3 ("the records released to CPSR tend 
to make the case that the NSA has continued to play a dominant 
role [in civilian computer security]").  As we discuss below, the 
public interest in this material likely has a direct (and 
improper) bearing upon defendants' reluctance to disclose it.

                             ARGUMENT

      As the Supreme Court has recognized, "[t]he basic purpose of 
[the] FOIA is to ensure an informed citizenry, vital to the 
functioning of a democratic society, needed to check against 
corruption and to hold the governors accountable to the governed."  
NLRB v. Robbins Tire & Rubber Co., 437 U.S. 214, 242 (1978).  More 
recently, the Court emphasized that "[o]fficial information that 
sheds light on an agency's performance of its statutory duties 
falls squarely within that statutory purpose."  Department of 
Justice v. Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, 489 U.S. 
749, 773 (1989).  The basic principles underlying the FOIA are 
clearly implicated here, where the disputed documents shed light 
upon an inter-agency relationship Congress expressly sought to 
regulate through the Computer Security Act.  

     I. EXEMPTION 1 HAS BEEN IMPROPERLY ASSERTED IN THIS CASE

     Defendants seek to withhold "NSA information" contained in 14 
documents under Exemption 1 on the ground that the material is 
"properly classified" under the substantive standards of Executive 
Order ("EO") 12356.  The exemption applies to records that are 
"specifically authorized under criteria established by an 
Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national 
defense or foreign policy and ... are in fact properly classified 
pursuant to such Executive order."  5 U.S.C. Sec. 552(b)(1).  
Defendants bear the burden of demonstrating that the information 
is "in fact properly classified pursuant to" both procedural and 
substantive criteria contained in the Executive Order.  Goldberg 
v. Department of State, 818 F.2d 71, 77 (D.C. Cir. 1987); Lesar v. 
Department of Justice, 636 F.2d 472, 483 (D.C. Cir. 1980).

     Under the facts of this case, the Court must determine 
whether it is "proper" for information to be classified under 
circumstances in which Congress expressly intended that it would 
not be.  As plaintiff has shown, one of Congress' primary reasons 
for placing civilian computer security authority with NIST was its 
belief that NSA's "natural tendency to restrict and even deny 
access to information that it deems important would disqualify 
that agency from being put in charge of the protection of non-
national security information."  H. Rep. No. 153 (Part 2), 100th 
Cong., 1st Sess. 21 (1987).  The evil Congress sought to prevent 
-- the classification of information relating to the development 
of civilian security standards -- has occurred in this case.  Such 
a direct contravention of congressional intent cannot be deemed 
"proper" within the meaning of Exemption 1.

     The propriety of the classification under the express terms 
of EO 12356 is also highly questionable in this case.  The Order 
provides that "[i]n no case shall information be classified in 
order to conceal violations of law ... [or] to prevent embarrass-
ment to a person, organization or agency ...."  EO 12356, 3 C.F.R. 
166 (1983), reprinted in 50 U.S.C. Sec. 401 note (1988), at Sec. 
1.6(a).  This prohibition is clearly relevant here, where the 
withheld material relates to an inter-agency relationship that:

     1) NSA opposed during congressional consideration       
        of the Computer Security Act;

     2) Congress established over the objection of NSA, 
        rejecting proposals that NIST only be given       
        authority "on the surface" for security             
        standards; and

     3) has generated public interest amid indications       
        that NSA might, in fact, be acting as the de       
        facto final authority on civilian computer       
        security standards.
  
     Under such circumstances, the Court cannot foreclose the 
possibility that relevant information has been classified and 
withheld from disclosure for the improper purpose of "conceal[ing] 
violations of law ... [or] to prevent embarrassment."  Indeed, as 
the record demonstrates, information concerning NSA's role in the 
development of the DSS has been only grudgingly (and belatedly) 
disclosed as this proceeding has unfolded.

     II. EXEMPTION 3 HAS BEEN IMPROPERLY INVOKED IN THIS CASE

     The Court's analysis of defendants' claims under Exemption 3 
will necessarily be similar to its analysis of the Exemption 1 
claims.  Defendants once again cite "national security" concerns 
and seek to withhold the same 14 documents that are classified.  
Again, the Court must consider the propriety of secrecy claims 
growing out of an activity that Congress expressly intended would 
be open to public scrutiny.

     First, defendants invoke Section 6 of Public Law No. 86-36, 
50 U.S.C. Sec. 402 note, to withhold information that pertains to 
"NSA's INFOSEC-related capabilities, the features of certain 
algorithms considered for use in the digital signature standard 
evaluation process, ... and the specific national security 
considerations that were implicated by the DSS evaluation 
process."  Def. Mem. at 13 (footnote omitted).
  
     While Section 6 does qualify as a "statute" within the 
meaning of Exemption 3, its application is not as sweeping as 
defendants suggest.  In Hayden v. National Security Agency, 608 
F.2d 1381, 1389 (D.C. Cir. 1979), the D.C. Circuit held that only 
where a particular NSA "function or activity is authorized by 
statute and not otherwise unlawful" will "NSA materials integrally 
related to that function or activity fall within Public Law No. 
86-36 and Exemption 3." (emphasis added).  Thus, like EO 12356's 
prohibition against the classification of information to conceal 
violations of law, application of Section 6 requires the Court to 
consider the propriety of the "function" or "activity" that is 
being protected.

     The fact that Section 6 authorizes NSA to exercise discretion 
in withholding or disclosing information in no way negates the 
Court's obligation to review the agency's determination de novo.  
"Congress made no provision in FOIA for a lower standard of review 
in [Exemption 3] cases; instead, review was expressly made de novo 
under all the exemptions in [the Act]."  Long v. Internal Revenue 
Service, 742 F.2d 1173, 1182 (9th Cir. 1984).  Such review "better 
serve[s] the congressional purpose of assuring that any particular 
nondisclosure decision was the product of legislative rather than 
executive judgment."  Id.

     Defendants also invoke 18 U.S.C. Sec. 798, a criminal statute 
prohibiting the disclosure of "any classified information" 
concerning cryptography.  Once again, in applying this provision, 
the Court must consider whether the material is properly 
classified under the terms of the Executive Order.  Seeking to 
avoid such scrutiny, defendants assert that "[u]nder Sec. 798, the 
propriety of the classification is irrelevant."  Def. Mem. at 16 
n.12, citing United States v. Boyce, 594 F.2d 1246, 1251 (9th 
Cir.), cert. denied, 444 U.S. 855 (1979).  Boyce, however involved 
a criminal prosecution and does not stand for the proposition that 
the statute bars disclosure under FOIA if the Court finds that the 
material is not properly classified.

     In short, application of both Public Law No. 86-36 and 18 
U.S.C. Sec. 798 requires consideration of the underlying NSA 
activity at issue in this case (development of the digital 
signature standard) and a determination of whether that activity 
is proper under the Computer Security Act.
 
                        *          *          *

[Material relating to other exemption claims deleted]

                        *          *          *

                             CONCLUSION

     For the foregoing reasons, defendants' motion for summary 
judgment should be denied and plaintiff's motion for partial 
summary judgment should be granted.

=============================================================

