.\" Copyright (C) 1994-1997  Richard Gooch
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.

.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Richard Gooch may be reached by email at  rgooch@atnf.csiro.au
.\" The postal address is:
.\"   Richard Gooch, c/o ATNF, P. O. Box 76, Epping, N.S.W., 2121, Australia.
.\"
.\"	pgpdaemon.8		Richard Gooch	9-SEP-1997
.\"
.TH PGPDAEMON 8 "9 Oct 1997" "PGPsendmail/Unix Suite"
.SH NAME
PGPdaemon \- daemon for automatic signing and decryption with PGP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pgpdaemon
[
.B -mailwait
]
[
.B -detach
]
[
.B -nomail
]
[
.B -no_filelocking
]
[
.B -pgppath <path>
]
[
.B -uid <uid>
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIpgpdaemon\fP programme is a daemon, run by the user, which can
automatically sign or decrypt PGP messages. PGPdaemon is part of the
PGPsendmail/Unix Suite.
.PP
PGPdaemon will periodically read the users' incoming mail spool
directory and will move the contents to another spool file, decrypting
any messages that it can.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-mailwait
This option will prevent PGPdaemon from processing any incoming mail
until it has received a passphrase from \fIsendpgppass\fP. If this
option is not specified, upon startup PGPdaemon will process any mail
in the users' spoolfile and will not decrypt any messages. This can be
annoying.
.TP
.B \-detach
This option will detach PGPdaemon from the parent process. PGPdaemon
will run until signalled with SIGTERM or SIGKILL. Note that PGPdaemon
does not put itself in the background.
.TP
.B \-nomail
This option disables processing of the incoming mail spool area by
PGPdaemon.
.TP
.B \-no_filelocking
This option disables file locking checks on the input and output spool
files. PGPdaemon will only use lockfiles with this option. This option
is useful with broken mail readers which lock their input spool (the
output spool file for PGPdaemon) unecessarily.
.TP
.B \-pgppath <path>
This option sets the PGPPATH environment variable for PGPdaemon and all
its child processes. This is an alternative to setting the PGPPATH
environment variable externally. The value of <path> must be a
directory containing the path specification.
.TP
.B \-uid <uid>
This option sets the real-user-id to \fIuid\fP. This is helpful in
supporting encrypted mailing lists.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file $PGPPATH/PGPdaemon.config (which must exist)
configures the \fIpgpdaemon\fP programme. It is a simple ASCII file
with one configuration option per line. Comment lines must start with
a leading '#' character. Comment lines and blank lines are
ignored. Each configuration option is a keyword followed by zero or
more parameters, depending on the option. The following section
details the configuration options. Below are the permitted keywords:
.TP
.B USERID PGPuserID
\fIPGPuserID\fP specifies the PGP user ID to use when signing and
decrypting. This option is mandatory. You may provide \fB$env\fP for
the \fIPGPuserID\fP, in which case the value of the \fIenv\fP
environment variable is used. A typical use for this would be
\fB$LOGNAME\fP which would set the PGP user ID to your username.
.TP
.B MAILWAIT
This option will prevent PGPdaemon from processing any incoming mail
until it has received a passphrase from \fIsendpgppass\fP. If this
option is not specified, upon startup PGPdaemon will process any mail
in the users' spoolfile and will not decrypt any messages. This can be
annoying.
.TP
.B OUT_SPOOL_FILE spoolfile
Processed mail will be written to the \fIspoolfile\fP. A leading
"~/" is permitted. If this is not specified, mail is written to
\fB$HOME/decrypted-mail\fP.
.TP
.B IN_SPOOL_DIR spooldir
Incoming mail is read from \fIspooldir\fP/$LOGNAME. A leading "~/" is
permitted. If this is not set, the contents of your \fIMAIL\fP
environment variable, if it exists, is used for the entire file
name. If neither exist, the default /usr/spool/mail/$LOGNAME is used
for incoming mail.
.TP
.B MAIL_CHECK_INTERVAL interval
Checks of the incoming spool file are done every \fIinterval\fP
seconds.
.TP
.B LOG_FILE logfile
Specifies the logfile to write logging output to. \fIlogfile\fP may be
a plain filename, or a simple shell-like expression, where "~" and
environment variable expansion is supported. Variable names may be
enclosed in a matching pair of '{' and '}' braces. If this option is
not specified, the default is
\fB$PGPPATH/PGPdaemon.log.<hostname>\fP.
.SH SIGNALS
PGPdaemon responds to signals in a variety of ways:
.TP
.B SIGINT
PGPdaemon will exit cleanly.
.TP
.B SIGTERM
PGPdaemon will exit cleanly.
.TP
.B SIGPIPE
PGPdaemon will exit cleanly.
.TP
.B SIGHUP
PGPdaemon will clean up and restart by calling exec(2).
.TP
.B SIGTTIN
Caught and discarded.
.TP
.B SIGTTOU
Caught and discarded.
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
PGPdaemon will write the secret keyring file if it doesn't already
exist and if PGPdaemon has it stored internally.
.TP
.B SIGUSR2
PGPdaemon will perform an immediate check for incoming mail.
.TP
.B SIGIO
PGPdaemon will read a request from its pipe.
.TP
.B SIGSEGV
PGPdaemon attempts an emergency cleanup, logging the event if
possible. This is for diagnostic purposes (a segmentation violation
should never happen).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.BI /usr/spool/mail/<user>
the users' incoming mail spool
.TP
.BI $HOME/decrypted-mail
mail spool after decryption
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/pubring.pgp
the users' public keyring file
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/randseed.bin
the seed file for PGP
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/PGPdaemon.config
the users' configuration file
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/PGPdaemon.log.<hostname>
log of activity/errors
.\" .TP
.\" .BI $PGPPATH/PGPdaemon.log.sig
.\" signature certificate for logfile
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/PGPsendmail.debug
enable debugging if exists
.TP
.BI /tmp/PGPsendmail.debug.<UID>
debugging output file
.TP
.BI pgpsendmail/doc/README.PGPdaemon
distribution README (has more info.)
.PD
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The \fIPGPPATH\fP environment variable must be set to the directory
containing your secret keyring. The \fIMAIL\fP environment variable
may contain the name of your input mail spool file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR pgp (1),
.BR pgpsendmail (1),
.BR sendpgppass (1),
.BR pgppipe (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Richard Gooch (rgooch@atnf.csiro.au)
.SH AVAILABILITY
The PGPsendmail/Unix Suite is available for anonymous ftp from:

ftp.atnf.csiro.au:pub/people/rgooch
ftp.dhp.com:pub/crypto/pgp/PGPsendmail
ftp.ox.ac.uk:pub/crypto/pgp/utils
linux.nrao.edu:pub/src/pgp/PGPsendmail
