{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\fswiss Helv;}{\f4\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f5\fmodern Courier New;}{\f6\fmodern Pica;}{\f7\fswiss Helvetica;}
{\f8\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f9\fmodern Courier;}{\f10\froman Times;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote text;}{\s246\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{\s247\li720\sb80\sl-240 
\i\f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{\s250\li720\sb80\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\fi-245\li360\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon253\snext251 heading 4;}{\s252\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 
\snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \snext10 heading 1;}{\s255\li360\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal Indent;}{\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-240\li600\sb60\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 
\snext2 Jli;}{\s3\li120\sb60\sl-240\keep\tx520\tx920\tx1320\tx1720\tx2120 \f9\fs16\lang1033 \snext3 Ex;}{\s4\li120\sb160\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa1;}{\s5\fi-240\li360\sl-240\tx360 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb1;}{
\s6\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240\tx360 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb2;}{\s7\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lp1;}{\s8\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Th;}{
\s9\li115\sb60\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Tp;}{\s10\li120\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal 2;}{\s11\li120\sb120\sa120 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 bitmap;}{\s12\li120\sb120\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa2;}{\s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240 
\f8\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Jl;}{\s14\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th2;}{\s15\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 
\b\f8\fs16\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th3;}{\s16\li115\sb200\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 Normal 3;}{\s17\fi-1800\li1915\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1915 \b\f8\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext18 Thh;}{\s18\fi-1800\li1915\sb60\sl-240\tx1915 \f8\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext18 Tph;}{\s19\tx360\tx720 \f2\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext19 Help;}{\s20\tx360\tx720 \b\f2\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon19\snext20 Help Title;}}{\info
{\author Mark Riordan}{\creatim\yr1994\mo6\dy30\hr21\min19}{\version1}{\edmins448}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern16417}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj {\*\template 
C:\\WINWORD\\WHAT31.DOT}\sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 {\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Usenet_News}} {\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Usenet News}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Usenet}} Usenet News
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 The {\uldb Usenet}{\v Usenet} News, or Netnews, system is a kind of distributed {\ul bulletin board system}{\v BBS}
 run on thousands of computers world-wide.  Users of Usenet News exchange views and information by writing {\ul articles}{\v article}, which are then transmitted automatically amoungst the computers in the network.  Once {\ul posted}{\v posting}
, an article can by read by others days, hours, or even minutes later, depending upon their computer's type of network link to Usenet.
\par Articles are organized by topic area into {\ul newsgroups}{\v newsgroup}, of which there are currently over 4500.  
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\f4\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Overview_of_WinVN}} {\f4\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Overview of WinVN}} {\f4\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Overview of WinVN}} Overview of WinVN
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 WinVN is a Microsoft Windows and Windows NT-based {\ul news reader}{\v news_reader}.  Like other news readers, it can be used to select, view, and write {\uldb Usenet News}{\v Usenet_news }{\ul articles}{
\v article}.  WinVN can also be used to send (but not receive) {\ul electronic mail messages}{\v electronic_mail_message}.
\par WinVN offers a more visual approach to Usenet News than most other news readers.  WinVN allows you to easily navigate amoungst {\ul newsgroups}{\v newsgroup} and articles via its point-and-click interface.
\par In normal operation, WinVN displays three types of windows:  the {\uldb main window}{\v main_window}, which displays a list of all newsgroups; one or more {\uldb group windows}{\v group_window}
, each of which displays a list of the articles in a newsgroup; and one or more {\uldb article windows}{\v article_window}
, which each displays an article.  Double-clicking on a newsgroup or article name causes that item to be displayed in a separate window.
\par When you want to write an article, WinVN displays a {\uldb posting window}{\v posting_window} for that purpose.  See {\uldb Posting an Article}{\v posting_an_article}.  Similarly, when you want to write an electronic mail message, WinVN displays a {\uldb 
mail window}{\v mail_window} to accept your text.  See {\uldb Mailing a Message}{\v mailing_a_message}.
\par WinVN offers a number of configuration options; see {\uldb Config Menu Commands}{\v config_menu_commands}.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\f4\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} About_the_author}} {\f4\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} History of WinVN}} {\f4\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} author}} History of WinVN
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 
WinVN was originally written at home as an own-time project by me, Mark Riordan, a systems programmer at Michigan State University.  The program and its source code have been placed in the public domain.  WinVN is not a product of MSU or any other institu
tion.  
\par The name WinVN means "Windowed Visual Newsreader".  The "VN" portion of the name was inspired by the now-obscure Unix newsreader, vn.
\par Serious development of WinVN began in September 1989.  It continued in fits and starts until roughly Fall 1992, when Sam Rushing {\f5 (rushing@titan.ksc.nasa.gov}), Jim Dumoulin {\f5 (dumoulin@titan.ksc.nasa.gov}
) took over development.  Sam and Jim work at {\f7 
the NASA/Kennedy Space Center Information Systems Branch and selected WinVN as a good candidate for future development as part of the Payload Data Management System (PDMS-II) project.  After contacting Mark Riordan, NASA agreed to make extensive enhanceme
}{\f7 nts to WinVN, coordinate a public domain Internet development effort to extend its features, and to serve as the overall int}{\f7 egrator for future versions of WinVN.  }{\f3 
Sam Rushing reworked WinVN to support the emerging Windows TCP/IP Sockets standard (Winsock), revamped the user interface and added support for threading and XOVER (a faster extension to the news transport protocol).  He also ported WinVN to Windows NT.  
}{\f3 
\par }{\f7 Since then, many people, in a truly international effort, have contributed their own time to the success of WinVN.  Certainly by now most of the code in WinVN has been written by persons other than I, though} I still contribute occasionally{\f7 
.  See }{\f7\uldb List of Contributors}{\v\f7 list_of_contributors}{\f7 .  }Although the NASA contributors work partly on "company time", even their work is done in large part on their own time.
\par I developed a Macintosh version, but it is no longer in sync with the latest Windows version and is not being distributed (I think!).  The release of a number of good Macintosh newsreaders convinced me long ago to cease development of the Mac version.  

\par You can correspond with the authors of WinVN via the mailing list {\f5 winvn@titan.ksc.nasa.gov}.  It's best to send your remarks to this mailing list.  However, I can be reached at {\f5 mrr@ripem.msu.edu} or  {\f5 riordanmr@clvax1.cl.msu.edu}{\f6 .}

\par 
\par Mark R.   Lansing, Michigan    July 1994
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} License}} {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} License}} {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} License}} License to use WinVN
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 The {\uldb authors}{\v list_of_contributors}
 of WinVN have placed it in the public domain.  This means you can use it free of charge for any purpose you like, with no conditions being placed on its use by us.  The source code is also available free of charge{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 45 \\f "Symbol"
}{\fldrslt }}and licensing requirements{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 45 \\f "Symbol"}{\fldrslt }}from the {\uldb same places}{\v Getting_Winvn} as the executables.  
\par You have our permission to modify, redistribute, hoard, or even sell WinVN in its executable or source form.  You don't have to pay us anything.  If you do sell WinVN, though, we'd appreciate it if you'd provide your own support.  The support load for Win
VN is already quite substantial, and the WinVN developers work as unpaid volunteers (except in the case of supporting their own in-house users).  
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} List of Contributors}} {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} list_of_contributors}} {\plain \f8\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} author}} List of Contributors
\par \pard\plain \s10\li120\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 Here is a partial list of those who have contributed to the development of WinVN.  (We are working on compiling a better list.)
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240\tx720\tx2880 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \b\f10\lang1033 Original Author:}{\plain \b\f10\lang1033 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Mark Riordan}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu}{\f10 
\par }{\plain \b\f10\lang1033 Enhancement Author:}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Sam Rushing}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 rushing@titan.ksc.nasa.gov}{\f10 
\par }{\plain \b\f10\lang1033 Contributing Authors:}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Jim Dumoulin}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 dumoulin@titan.ksc.nasa.gov}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Mat Bretherton}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 MBretherton@cmutual.com.au}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Mark Hammond }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 MHammond@cmutual.com.au}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Conor Nolan}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 cnolan@tcd.ie}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 John Cooper}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 jcooper@netcom.com}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Michael Downs}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 mdowns@eos.arc.nasa.gov}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Michael Finken}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 finken@conware.de}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Harvey Brydon}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 brydon@tulsa.dowell.slb.com}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Jody Glasser}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 TDC!VAX000!GLASSER@tdycont.attmail.com}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Jim Martin}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 jim@grimaldi.rutgers.edu}{\f10 
\par }{\f10 \tab }{\f10 Don Gardener}{\f10 \tab }{\f10 gardnerd@keystone.ksc.nasa.gov}{\f10 
\par }\pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Usenet_Etiquette}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Usenet Etiquette}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Usenet Etiquette}} Usenet Etiquette{\f3  }("Netiquette")
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 The ease of {\ul posting}{\v posting} {\uldb Usenet News}{\v usenet_news} {\ul articles}{\v article} causes many inappropriate articles to be sent to the network.  An article can be inappropriate if it:

\par \pard \fi-810\li900\sb80\sl-240\tx90\tx540 \tab --\tab Is devoid of useful information or ideas.
\par \tab --\tab Is sent to inappropriate {\ul newsgroup(s)}{\v newsgroup}.
\par \tab --\tab Is really intended for a particular individual, rather than the entire {\ul Usenet}{\v usenet} community.
\par \tab --\tab Contains rude or insulting remarks.
\par \pard \li120\sb80\sl-240 Please compose your articles thoughtfully.  Consider sending an {\ul electronic mail message}{\v electronic_mail_message} rather than posting an article, if appropriate.  
\par Be aw
are of the fact that many sites must pay long-distance telephone charges to receive your article.  Also be aware of the fact that some of the popular newsgroups have tens of thousands of readers.  10,000 people each reading your article for 20 seconds spe
nd a total of 55 hours reading your article.
\par At the end of most articles there is usually a small blurb called a {\ul signature}{\v signature} or sig.  This usually comes from a file in the person's login directory and is appended automatically to the message by the {\ul news reader}{\v news_reader}
.   Some people get carried away with their signature and place complex ASCII drawings or cute sayings at the bottom of their messages.  These signatures bother most people and it is considered poor "netiquette" to have signatures larger than about 4 line
s.  You can create a signature file of your own using any Windows Editor and then attach it to WinVN using the option Config Signature File on the Config menu.  Please remember to save your signature file as plain ASCII text, since ven
dor dependent binary files (such as Microsoft Word files) are not portable across the entire Internet community{\f3 .}{\f3 
\par }{\f3 
Many new users wish to test their ability to post before they actually say anything of any interest to anyone.  Don't post test type messages to an active newsgroup.  This will interrupt quite a number of people and is considered poor "netiquette".  There
}{\f3  are usually a number of "Test" newsgroups (they usually have the word "TEST" in their name) that can be used to verify that posting from your }{\f3 host will be successful.   Some test newsgroups (like }{\b\f3 ALT.TEST)}{\f3 
 have automatic E-Mail responding software.  A post to those groups will cause electronic mail from all over the world to be sent back to you as your post gets forwarded from site to site.}{\f3 
\par }{\f3 
The "Newsgroups:"  line in a news header isn't limited to just one group.  If a note makes sense to more than one area you can cross-post it to other newsgroups by just separating the newsgroups with a comma on the Newsgroups line.  It is considered poor 
}{\f3 "netiquette" to cross-post to more than three or four newsgroups.}{\f3 
\par }{\f3 
When posting new articles to News, please remember that News runs on many different hosts and operating systems.  In fact, since WinVN is one of the first usable News readers for Microsoft Windows, the majority of posts from the Usenet are viewed by peopl
}{\f3 e running non-DOS/Windows operating systems.  Inserting graphics or non ASCII text (such as different fonts, underlining, color changes etc.) in an article will appear as unintelligible garb}{\f3 
age to almost everyone else. You can use WinVN to send binary attachments along with your post but exercise judgment and don't flood the Usenet with massive binary attachments.}{\f3 
\par }{\f3 
When responding to articles, use the Follow-up Article option instead of the New Post option.  This will maintain a reference link between your message and the article you were reading at the time of your posting.   People reading your message from other 
}{\f3 "thread based" news readers, like WinVN, will be able to understand how your me}{\f3 
ssage fits into the rest of the conversation. WinVN will automatically "quote" the text of the article you were reading (including a unique Message ID that can be used to locate the original posting) and insert it at the beginning of your post.   Interspe
}{\f3 
rse your comments between the quoted text and delete any large quoted sections that do not pertain to your response.  Someone can always find the original text by clicking on the unique Message ID.  Also, use Message ID's when referring to other articles 
}{\f3 an}{\f3 d never refer to another article by it's article number.   Article Numbers are never the same from system to system so only people reading news on your own local system will know to which article you are referring.  }{\f3 
\par }{\f7 
Try to keep your text in a generic format.  Many (if not most) of the people reading Usenet do so from 80 column terminals or from workstations with 80 column terminal windows.  Try to keep your lines of text to less than 80 characters for optimal readabi
}{\f7 lity.  If people quote part of your art}{\f7 
icle in a follow-up, each line gets indented a few characters and gets proceeded with a ">".  Thus, standard lines of 75 characters or less are best for later readability.    Also, WinVN allows you to change your viewing font to any font your workstation 
}{\f7 supports.   Be careful when using proportional style fonts since they allow you to place more characters per line than fixed style fonts.}{\f7 
\par }Most news readers on the Usenet are running on multi-user hosts with system administrators and operating systems that 
validate logons.  Unfortunately, WinVN runs under MS-DOS which is a single user operating system that doesn't have any concept of a logon.  (WinVN also runs under Windows/NT which does validate logon's.)  Please take special care in configuring the {\i 
Configure Personal Info} option and insure that your name and mailing address are valid.  Since most MS-DOS machines cannot receive Internet mail, don't specify your MS-DOS host as your mail address.  
\par 
\par See {\uldb Posting an Article}{\v posting_an_article} and {\uldb Mailing a Mess}{\uldb age}{\v mailing_a_message}.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f8\lang1033 \page {\f4\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} newsrc}} {\f4\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {
\fs16\up6 $} The NEWSRC File}} {\f4\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} newsrc}} The NEWSRC File
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f8\fs20\lang1033 In order to keep track of your viewing history, WinVN records information about {\ul newsgroups}{\v newsgroup}
 in a file named NEWSRC.  This file contains a list of all newsgroups.  For each newsgroup, WinVN records whether it is subscribed and which articles have been seen.
\par Many Unix-based {\ul news readers}{\v news_reader}
 record this information in a file named .newsrc.  WinVN uses a similar file format to provide compatibility with these programs.  One extension had to be made to the file format to provide features not found in ordinary Unix newsreaders.  WinVN NEWSRC fi
les contain in each line a field of the form
\par {\b\f5 \tab }{\b\f5 s}{\i biggest_art_number }  
\par where  {\i biggest_art_number } is the number of the most recent article to appear on the {\ul news server}{\v news_server}.  WinVN uses this information at the beginning of a session to tell you which 
articles have appeared on the server since your last session.  WinVN does not require this field to be present, so you can transport your Unix-style {\f5 .newsrc }
file to your PC as the filename NEWSRC and WinVN should be able to use it without modification.  Transporting a WinVN NEWSRC back to Unix would require a simple script to remove the "{\b\f5 s}" fields.
\par See {\uldb Group Menu  Commands}{\v group_menu}{\v \-}{\v _commands}.and {\uldb Invoking WinVN}{\v Invoking_WinVN}
\par \page 
\par 
\par }