mailto:pgut001@cs.auckland.ac.nz

The library provides an easy-to-use interface which allows even inexperienced
crypto programmers to easily add strong encryption and authentication services
to their software.  The library contains DES, triple DES, IDEA, MDC/SHS, RC2,
RC4, RC5, SAFER, SAFER-SK, Blowfish, and Blowfish-SK conventional encryption,
MD2, MD4, MD5, RIPEMD-160 and SHA hash algorithms, and Diffie-Hellman, DSA, and
RSA public-key encryption, as well as a comprehensive high-level interface with
functions such as cryptCreateSignature() and cryptExportKey().  The library is
supplied as source code for Unix (shared or static libraries), DOS, Windows
(16- and 32-bit DLL's), and the Amiga.

The library provides a standardised interface to a number of popular encryption
algorithms, as well as providing a high-level interface which hides most of the
implementation details and provides an operating-system-independant encoding
method which makes it easy to transfer encrypted data from one system to
another.  Although use of the the high-level interface is recommended,
experienced programmers can directly access the lower-level encryption routines
for implementing custom encryption protocols or methods not provided by the
library.

The library API serves as an interface to a range of plug-in encryption modules
which allow encryption algorithms to be added in a fairly transparent manner.
The standardised API allows any of the algorithms and modes supported by the
library to be used with a minimum of coding effort.  As such the main function
of the library is to provide a standard, portable, easy-to-use interface
between the underlying encryption routines and the user software.  In addition
the easy-to-use high-level routines allow for the exchange of encrypted session
keys and the creation and checking of digital signatures with a minimum of
programming overhead.

The library has been written to be as idiot-proof as possible.  On
initialization it performs extensive self-testing against test data from
encryption standards documents, and the API's check each parameter and function
call for errors before any actions are performed, with error reporting down to
the level of individual parameters.

The library implements a security perimeter around the encryption functions,
with encryption contexts consisting of an arbitrary handle referring to
(hidden) data held within the library.  No outside access to state variables or
keying information is possible, provided the underlying OS provides some form
of memory protection.  If the OS supports it, all sensitive information used by
the library will be page-locked to ensure it is never swapped to disk.

There is one small bug I found about an hour after it was released (sigh), you
can't use CRYPT_USE_DEFAULT as a parameter to cryptCreateContext() due to
missing parentheses in crypt.c.
                              
