
Build Instructions
==================

For the Macintosh or Windows platforms, please see the platform-
specific build instructions. For Unix platforms, most of this
software is configured using the GNU autoconf system. We have only
printed the configure.in scripts, so you will need to get autoconf,
run it to produce a configure script, and run that to produce the
Makefiles. From that point, typing make will build the software.

Note that the Unix software is incomplete. You can build
development libraries (the PGPsdk), but there is no pgp application
written to use those libraries. Still, hopefully it is useful for
many things.

The LDAP source code here is from the University of Michigan. For
publication, we have not included the MS-DOS and VMS specific
portions of the code, although there is no reason that you could
not add them back in.

There are two `extras' included in this book. One is the shasum
perl script used to generate the SHA hashes in this series. It is
like the md5sum program, but generates SHA hashes. To use it, you
will need the SHA package for Perl, readily available from the net
 e.g. http://www.perl.org/. Note that the hashes are computed using
the `new' SHA-1 hash, which is not the default supplied by the
SHA-1.1 package.

The second extra is a trivial patch to the sortpages utility from
Tools for Publishing Source Code via OCR, without which it will
reject binary files.

Also note that all the files use Unix linefeed conventions (LF).
You may want to convert them to DOS/Windows (CR+LF) or Macintosh
(CR) style linefeeds before compiling.
