.\" #	@(#)COPYRIGHT	1.1 (NRL) 17 January 1995
.\"
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\"
.\" All of the documentation and software included in this software
.\" distribution from the US Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) are
.\" copyrighted by their respective developers.
.\"
.\" Portions of the software are derived from the Net/2 and 4.4 Berkeley
.\" Software Distributions (BSD) of the University of California at
.\" Berkeley and those portions are copyright by The Regents of the
.\" University of California. All Rights Reserved.  The UC Berkeley
.\" Copyright and License agreement is binding on those portions of the
.\" software.  In all cases, the NRL developers have retained the original
.\" UC Berkeley copyright and license notices in the respective files in
.\" accordance with the UC Berkeley copyrights and license.
.\"
.\" Portions of this software and documentation were developed at NRL by
.\" various people.  Those developers have each copyrighted the portions
.\" that they developed at NRL and have assigned All Rights for those
.\" portions to NRL.  Outside the USA, NRL has copyright on some of the
.\" software developed at NRL. The affected files all contain specific
.\" copyright notices and those notices must be retained in any derived
.\" work.
.\"
.\" NRL LICENSE
.\"
.\" NRL grants permission for redistribution and use in source and binary
.\" forms, with or without modification, of the software and documentation
.\" created at NRL provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. All terms of the UC Berkeley copyright and license must be followed.
.\" 2. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 3. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgements:
.\"
.\" 	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\" 	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 	This product includes software developed at the Information
.\" 	Technology Division, US Naval Research Laboratory.
.\"
.\" 5. Neither the name of the NRL nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED BY NRL IS PROVIDED BY NRL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS
.\" IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL NRL OR
.\" CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
.\" EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation
.\" are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing
.\" official policies, either expressed or implied, of the US Naval
.\" Research Laboratory (NRL).
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)hosts.5	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\"
.Dd October 1, 1995
.Dt HOSTS 5
.Os BSD 4.4
.Sh NAME
.Nm hosts
.Nd host name data base
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm hosts
file contains information regarding
the known hosts on the network.
For each host a single line should be present
with the following information:
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
Internet (or IPv6) address
official host name
aliases
.Ed
.Pp
Items are separated by any number of blanks and/or
tab characters.  A ``#'' indicates the beginning of
a comment; characters up to the end of the line are
not interpreted by routines which search the file.
.Pp
When using the name server
.Xr named 8 ,
this file provides a backup when the name server
is not running.
For the name server, it is suggested that only a few addresses
be included in this file.
These include  address for the local interfaces that 
.Xr ifconfig 8
needs at boot time and a few machines on the local network.
.Pp
Historically, this file was created from the official host
data base maintained at the Network Information Control
Center
.Pq Tn NIC , 
though local changes may be required
to bring it up to date regarding unofficial aliases
and/or unknown hosts.  As the data base maintained at
.Tn NIC
is incomplete, use of the name server is recommended for
sites on the
.Tn DARPA
Internet.
.Pp
Internet (IPv4) addresses are specified in the conventional
``.'' (dot) notation using the
.Xr inet_addr 3
routine
from the Internet address manipulation library,
.Xr inet 3 .
IPv6 addresses are specified using ``:'' (colon) notation.
Host names may contain any printable
character other than a field delimiter, newline,
or comment character.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /etc/hosts -compact
.It Pa /etc/hosts
The
.Nm hosts
file resides in
.Pa /etc .
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gethostbyname 3 ,
.Xr hostname2addr 3 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8 ,
.Xr named 8 
.Rs
.%T "Name Server Operations Guide for BIND"
.Re
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
file format appeared in
.Bx 4.2 .
