.\"#       @(#)COPYRIGHT   1.1a (NRL) 17 August 1995
.\"
.\"COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\"
.\"All of the documentation and software included in this software
.\"distribution from the US Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) are
.\"copyrighted by their respective developers.
.\"
.\"This software and documentation were developed at NRL by various
.\"people.  Those developers have each copyrighted the portions that they
.\"developed at NRL and have assigned All Rights for those portions to
.\"NRL.  Outside the USA, NRL also has copyright on the software
.\"developed at NRL. The affected files all contain specific copyright
.\"notices and those notices must be retained in any derived work.
.\"
.\"NRL LICENSE
.\"
.\"NRL grants permission for redistribution and use in source and binary
.\"forms, with or without modification, of the software and documentation
.\"created at NRL provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"   must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"
.\"        This product includes software developed at the Information
.\"        Technology Division, US Naval Research Laboratory.
.\"
.\"4. Neither the name of the NRL nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\"THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED BY NRL IS PROVIDED BY NRL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS
.\"IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\"TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
.\"PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL NRL OR
.\"CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
.\"EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\"PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\"PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\"LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\"NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\"SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation
.\"are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing
.\"official policies, either expressed or implied, of the US Naval
.\"Research Laboratory (NRL).
.\"
.Dd October 1, 1995
.Dt INET6 4
.Os NRL-IPv6
.Sh NAME
.Nm keys
.Nd Key management database entry file format
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file is used primarily as an input into
.Xr key 8 .
It is a file containing security association information.  There is one
security association entry per line, and it has the following format:
.Bd -literal
[type] [spi] [src] [dst] [transform] [key] <iv>
.Ed

where:
.Bl -tag -width transformxx
.It Bq type
Type of security association.  Can either be
.Nm ah
or
.Nm esp .
.It Bq spi
Security parameters index.  An unsigned 32-bit decimal integer value.
.It Bq src
.It Bq dst
Source and destination addresses.  Can either be names, IPv4, or IPv6
addresses.  Both most be of the same type (i.e. cannot have IPv4 has source,
and IPv6 as destination.).
.It Bq transform
Type of algorithm used.  For
.Nm esp
the only available value currently is
.Dq des-cbc
, for
.Nm ah
the only available value currently is
.Dq md5 .
.It Bq key
The key used.  An unsigned variable-length hexadecimal integer value.
(Although for ah with md5, it is usually 16 bytes, and for esp with DES, it
is usually 8 bytes.)
.It Bq iv
Optional initialization vector.  Currently used for esp with DES.  An
unsigned 32-bit or 64-bit integer.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE ENTRIES

.Bd -literal
# Sample keys file.  Note that like most files of this sort, the
# '#' character is a comment.

ah      2112 ::1 ::1           md5     9876543210abcdef0123456789abcdef
esp     5150 eddie alex        des-cbc abcdef0123456789 deadbeef
ah     90125 10.0.2.7 10.0.2.1 md5     abcdef98765432100123456789fedcba
.Ed

.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /etc/keys -compact
.It Pa /etc/keys
Ideally, the
.Nm
file resides in
.Pa /etc .
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ipsec 4 ,
.Xr key 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
file first appeared in NRL's
.Bx 4.4
IPv6 networking distribution.

The IPv6 extensions were written by Ran Atkinson, Dan McDonald, Craig Metz,
and Bao Phan of the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory.
