PGP International Freeware, Version 5.0i
(Executable Object Code Version)
Copyright © 1990-1997 Pretty Good Privacy, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

For Non-Commercial Distribution and Use Only
Terms and Conditions

	
This special freeware version of PGP 5.0i, including the software and
its related user documentation, ("Software Product") is owned by
Pretty Good Privacy, Inc. (or "PGP") and is protected by copyright
laws and international copyright treaties, as well as other
intellectual property laws and treaties.

The makers of PGP, however, are committed to making freely available
to individuals around the world a trusted means to secure their
personal information and communications from unwanted invasions of
privacy. To that end, it is important that this Software Product be
distributed from as many Internet sites as possible. Accordingly,
Pretty Good Privacy, Inc. (or "PGP") has agreed that it will not
assert any copyright claims against the non-commercial use and
non-commercial distribution of this Software Product (i.e., this
special international, freeware version 5.0i), provided that all of
the terms and conditions set forth below are complied with. The rights
granted in this license apply only to software that was compiled from
source code that was obtained directly from a printed book or other
printed materials published by Pretty Good Privacy, Inc.

1) Non-Commercial Licenses

a. Non-Commercial Use. You may use this Software Product solely for
non-commercial purposes. The term "non-commercial" means that the
product (a) has been distributed or otherwise made available at no
charge (direct or indirect) and (b) is not used for any commercial
purpose, which includes, but is not limited to, any activity engaged
for the purpose of generating revenues (directly or indirectly).  For
example, a commercial purpose includes the use of the product within a
commercial business or facility or the use of the product to provide a
service, or in support of service, for which you charge. Commercial
purpose also includes use by any government agency or organization.
Examples of non-commercial purposes include use at home for personal
correspondence, use by students for academic activities, or use by
human rights organizations. The software is in "use" when it is loaded
into the temporary memory (i.e., RAM) or installed into the permanent
memory (e.g., hard disk, CD ROM, or other storage device) of a
computer for the purpose of being accessible in client-mode by an end
user.

b. Non-Commercial Distribution.  You may make exact, unmodified
copies of this Software Product and distribute such copies solely by
electronic means (for example, posting on Internet sites for others to
download), subject to the following (a) that such distribution is
solely for non-commercial purposes (see above definition), (b) that
the Software Product is distributed unmodified and in its entirety
(with its complete user documentation, its readme files, its
copyright, trademark, other intellectual property notices, including
these terms and conditions, and all of its other components), and (c)
that such distribution may occur anywhere in the world, except that
Pretty Good Privacy, Inc. expressly forbids the export of this
Software Product to any countries embargoed by the U.S. government
(currently including, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Syria and
Sudan) or to the United States to the extent the practice in the U.S.
of any of the inventions covered by U.S. patent no. 4,405,829 (the
"RSA" patent) would require payment to the patent rights holder.

2. Other Uses. All right, title and interest in this Software Product,
including its accompanying user documentation, and all copyrights
therein and related trademarks, trade names and other intellectual
property rights, are owned by Pretty Good Privacy, Inc. or its
suppliers. All license rights not granted herein are reserved by PGP.
Should you wish to use or distribute this Software Product for
commercial purposes (or should you wish to modify, port, or translate
the software or its documentation, or use it in server-mode), please
refer to the International pages of the PGP web site located at
http://www.pgp.com for further information.

3. Technical Support. This Software Product is user-supported, meaning
that assistance in its installation and use may be limited to help
available from friends, family, and other users on the Internet.
Though PGP does not offer technical support for this Software Product,
we welcome your feedback. Technical support is available from PGP or
its resellers for those who have purchased copies of the commercial
version of this product. For further information, please refer to
http://www.pgp.com.

4. No Warranty. THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT IS PROVIDED FOR NON-COMMERCIAL
USE AND DISTRIBUTION ONLY, COMES WITH NO WARRANTY, AND IS PROVIDED ON
AN "AS IS" BASIS.  YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE COST OF ANY DAMAGE RESULTING
FROM THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN OR PRODUCED BY THIS SOFTWARE
PRODUCT. YOU ASSUME ALL RESPONSIBILITIES FOR SELECTION OF THIS
SOFTWARE PRODUCT TO ACHIEVE YOUR INTENDED RESULTS, AND FOR THE
INSTALLATION OF, USE OF, AND RESULTS OBTAINED FROM IT. TO THE MAXIMUM
EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, PGP, ITS SUPPLIERS AND OTHERS WHO
MAY DISTRIBUTE THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EITHER
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, CONFORMANCE WITH
DESCRIPTION, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT, WITH RESPECT TO THIS SOFTWARE
PRODUCT.

5. Limitation of Liability. THE CUMULATIVE LIABILITY OF PGP, ITS
SUPPLIERS OR OTHERS WHO MAY DISTRIBUTE THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT, TO YOU
OR ANY OTHER PARTY FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM ANY CLAIMS,
DEMANDS OR ACTIONS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THESE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS SHALL NOT EXCEED ONE U.S. DOLLAR.  IN NO EVENT SHALL PGP,
ITS SUPPLIERS OR OTHERS WHO MAY DISTRIBUTE THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT BE
LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR
EXEMPLARY DAMAGES OR LOST PROFITS WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING,WITHOUT
LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS, BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR OTHER PECUNIAR LOSS)
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT, EVEN
IF PGP, ITS SUPPLIERS OR OTHERS WHO MAY DISTRIBUTE THIS SOFTWARE
PRODUCT HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

BECAUSE SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATIONS ON IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OR THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR
CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS MAY NOT
APPLY TO YOU.

6. General. These terms and conditions may not be modified, amended,
canceled or in any way altered, nor may they be modified by custom and
usage of trade or course of dealing, except by an instrument in
writing and signed by a duly authorized officer of PGP. These terms
and conditions shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the
laws of the State of California, United States of America. Any action
or proceeding brought by anyone arising out of or related to these
terms and conditions shall be brought only in a state or federal court
of competent jurisdiction located in the county of San Francisco,
California, and the parties hereby consent to the jurisdiction and
venue of said courts. Should any term of these terms and conditions be
declared void or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such declaration shall have no effect on the remaining terms hereof.
These terms and conditions are in the English language, and only the
English language version hereof, regardless of the existence of other
language translations of these terms and conditions, shall be
controlling in all respects. The failure of either party to enforce
any rights granted hereunder or to take action against the other party
in the event of any breach hereunder shall not be deemed a waiver by
that party as to subsequent enforcement of rights or subsequent
actions in the event of future breaches. PGP reserves the right at any
time without liability or prior notice to change the features or
characteristics of this Software Product, or its documentation and
related materials, or future versions thereof. These terms and
conditions constitute the complete and exclusive statement of the
agreement between us which supersedes any proposal or prior agreement,
oral or written, and any other communication between us relating to
the subject matter of these terms and conditions.

Copyright © 1990-1997 Pretty Good Privacy, Inc. All rights reserved.
PGP, Pretty Good and Pretty Good Privacy are registered trademarks of
Pretty Good Privacy, Inc. The Software Product may use public key
algorithms described in U.S. patent numbers 4,200,770, 4,218,582, and
4,424,414, and their international equivalents, licensed by Cylink
Corporation, and number 4,405,829 licensed by Public Key Partners; the
IDEA™ cryptographic cipher described in U.S. patent number 5,214,703,
licensed from Ascom Tech AG; and the Northern Telecom Ltd., CAST
Encryption Algorithm, licensed from Northern Telecom, Ltd.  IDEA is a
trademark of Ascom Tech AG. The compression code in PGP is by Mark
Adler and Jean-loup Gailly, used with permission from the free
Info-ZIP implementation. LDAP software provided courtesy University of
Michigan at Ann Arbor, Copyright © 1992-1996 Regents of the University
of Michigan. All rights reserved. Richard Outerbridge is the author of
the Triple-DES code used in this product.  Pretty Good Privacy, Inc.
may have patents and/or pending patent applications covering subject
matter in this software or its documentation; the furnishing of this
software or documentation does not give you any license to these
patents. Note: Some countries have laws and regulations regarding the
use and export of cryptography products; please consult your local
government authority for details.

Should you have any questions concerning these terms and conditions,
or if you desire to contact Pretty Good Privacy, Inc. for any reason,
please write: Pretty Good Privacy, Inc. Customer Service, 2121 S. El
Camino Real, Suite 902, San Mateo, CA 94403. http://www.pgp.com.
