.\"
.\" pgp.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Pretty Good Privacy, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" $Id: pgp.1,v 1.1.2.2.2.9 1997/11/08 12:43:27 mhw Exp $
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pgp.1
.\"
.TH PGP 1 "JULY 1997 (v5.0)" PGP "User Manual"
.SH NAME
PGP \- A suite of tools for encrypting, decrypting and verifying
messages.
.SH DESCRIPTION
There are two files in this package, but several additional modes of
operation are available via symbolic links:

.RS
.BR pgp (1)
is the main cryptographic engine of the PGP package.  However,
invoking it as itself merely prints a usage summary.

.BR pgpe (1)
is executed to encrypt, or encrypt and sign, files.  It is a link to
.BR pgp (1).

.BR pgps (1)
is executed to only sign files.  It is a link to
.BR pgp (1).

.BR pgpv (1)
is executed to only verify or decrypt signed or encrypted files.  It
is a link to
.BR pgp (1).

.BR pgpk (1)
is the key management application, which is used to generate,
retrieve and send keys, as well as manage trust.

.RE
Public key cryptography must be fully understood by the user to be
useful.  A successful PGP user must be familiar with public key
cryptography in general, and some PGP-specific concepts (such as the
web of trust).  If you feel comfortable with your own level of
knowledge on this subject, your first step is probably going to be to
invoke
.BR pgpk (1)
to generate a key.
Additionally, a page by Phil Zimmermann on the importance of
cryptography is included in
.BR pgp-intro (7).
.SH FILES
.I ~/.pgp/pgp.cfg
.RS
User-specific configuration file.  In previous releases, this file was
called
.IR config.txt .
See
.BR pgp.cfg (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH MIGRATION
Users migrating from earlier versions of PGP will need to manually
migrate the following configuration files:

.RS
.I ~/.pgp/config.txt
is now
.IR ~/.pgp/pgp.cfg .
This file may be copied manually.  If not copied, internal defaults
will be used.  This file is largely unchanged in 5.0.  See
.BR pgp.cfg (5)
for more information on this file.

.I ~/.pgp/pubring.pgp
is now
.IR ~/.pgp/pubring.pkr .
You may copy your old public keyring, or allow 5.0 to generate a new
keyring for you.

.I ~/.pgp/secring.pgp
is now
.IR ~/.pgp/secring.skr .
You may copy your old private keyring.  Even if you do this, you are
encouraged to generate a new DSS/Diffie-Hellman key to allow
communication with all 5.0 users.

.I ~/.pgp/language.txt
is now
.IR ~/.pgp/language50.txt .
This file should
.B
not
be copied from your previous installation, as it is completely
different in 5.0.  If this file is not present, internal defaults will
be used.
.bp
.SH AUTHORS
A cast of thousands.  This is, of course, derived directly from the
work of Phil R. Zimmermann <prz@pgp.com>.  Major contributors to this
release include:

.nf
Unix Development
.RS
	Derek Atkins <warlord@MIT.EDU>\p
	Hal Finney <hal@pgp.com>\p
	Mark McArdle <markm@pgp.com>\p
	Brett A. Thomas <quark@baz.com>\p
	Mark Weaver <mhw@pgp.com>\p
.RE

Be Development
.RS
	Mark Elrod <elrod@pgp.com>\p
	Brett A. Thomas <quark@baz.com>\p
.RE

Library Development
.RS
	Derek Atkins <warlord@MIT.EDU>\p
	Colin Plumb <colin@pgp.com>\p
	Hal Finney <hal@pgp.com>\p
	Mark Weaver <mhw@pgp.com>\p
.RE

Unix Beta Testing
.RS
	Steve Gilbert <darkelf@redcloud.org>\p
	Mike Shappe <mshappe@jeeves.net>\p
.RE

Man Pages
.RS
	Brett A. Thomas <quark@baz.com>\p
.RE
.fi	
.SH BUGS
Keyserver support should be more informative with unknown protocols.

URL parsing uses static buffers and is vulnerable to overflow attacks.

The PAGER directive in pgp.cfg doesn't work.

The -b option to
.BR pgpv (1)
is not implemented.  This option allowed the "breaking" of signed
files into a signature and a file (effectively, a retroactive detached
signature).

.B pgpv -m
("more" mode) and "eyes-only" decryption is not displaying properly.
It is suggested that your pipe the output of
.BR pgpv (1)
into your pager of preference until this is fixed.

.BR pgpk (1)
doesn't pay attention to the
.B +force
option to force file overwrite; it stops to ask for confirmation.

Multipart armoring doesn't handle all possible permutations -
specifically, it does not work properly if all the sections are in one
file, or only the first file is named on the command line.

There is currently no way to specify just a secret or public keyring
for an operation.

.B pgp --version
doesn't work.  Use
.B pgpk --version
or one of the other commands, instead.

.BR "pgpv -p" ,
to "preserve" the original input filename, is not yet supported.

There are a number of bugs when specifying filenames
ending in digits; the general result is that the default output filename
is not what might be expected (i.e.,
.B pgpe -sa foo1
results in an output suggestion of
.I foo1.asc.1
instead of
.IR foo1.asc ,
as expected).  It is conjectured that the user interface is becoming
confused and invoking the rules used to generate multi-part ASCII
armor filenames.

Configuration option
.I TZfix
doesn't allow specifying non-mainstream values, such as
.B -420
or
.BR 30 .

.B "pgpk -e "
does not ask about marking a new userid as primary.

.B "pgpk -a"
should accept a key on stdin, but does not.

.B pgpk
is, in some instances, overwriting the "previously encrypted to
invalid key" flag on some keys.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pgpe (1),
.BR pgpv (1),
.BR pgps (1),
.BR pgpk (1),
.BR pgp.cfg (5),
.BR pgp-integration (7),
.BR pgp-intro (7),
http://www.pgp.com (US versions)
and
http://www.pgpi.com (International versions)
