.\"
.\" pgpv.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Pretty Good Privacy, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" $Id: pgpv.1,v 1.1.2.4.2.3 1997/10/09 21:44:38 quark Exp $
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pgpe.1
.\"
.TH PGP 5.0 "JULY 1997 (v5.0)" PGP "User Manual"
.SH NAME
pgpv \- Decrypts and Verifies messages.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pgpv [-fmqv] [-z|-zs]
.BI [-o " <outfile>" ]
.I file
.B ...
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pgpv
Decrypts and verifies files encrypted and/or signed by PGP.
.SH OPTIONS
All configuration options can be controlled from the command line.
See
.BR pgp.cfg (5)
for a complete list and how to specify them.
.IP -f
Stream mode.  Accepts input on
.I stdin
and places output on
.IR stdout.
If no files are specified as arguments, pgp executes in this mode by
default.
.IP "-o outfile"
Specifies that output should go to
.IR outfile .
If not specified, output goes to the default filename.  The default
filename for each input file is the input filename with the ".pgp"
".asc" or ".sig" removed.
It is an error to specify multiple input files with this option.
.IP -m
More mode.  Displays message output with PGP's internal pager, or the
.B Pager
specified in your
.BR pgp.cfg (5)
file.
.IP -z
Batch mode.  See
.BR pgp-integration (7)
for a discussion of integrating pgp support into your application.
.SH EXAMPLE
.I pgpv document.txt.asc
.RS
Decrypts and/or verifies the file
.IR document.txt.asc .
The resultant file will be
.IR document.txt .
.RE
.SH FILES
.I ~/.pgp/pgp.cfg
.RS
User-specific configuration file.  In previous releases, this file was
called
.IR config.txt .
See
.BR pgp.cfg (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.RS
See
.BR pgp (1).
.BE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pgp (1),
.BR pgpv (1),
.BR pgpe (1),
.BR pgpk (1),
.BR pgp.cfg (5),\p
.BR pgp-integration (7),
http://www.pgp.com (US versions)
and
http://www.pgpi.com (International versions)
