.\" Copyright (C) 1994  Richard Gooch
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.

.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Richard Gooch may be reached by email at  rgooch@atnf.csiro.au
.\" The postal address is:
.\"   Richard Gooch, c/o ATNF, P. O. Box 76, Epping, N.S.W., 2121, Australia.
.\"
.\"	pgpdaemon.8		Richard Gooch	8-DEC-1994
.\"
.TH PGPDAEMON 8 "8 Dec 1994" "PGPsendmail/Unix Suite"
.SH NAME
PGPdaemon \- daemon for automatic signing and decryption with PGP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pgpdaemon
[
.B -mailwait
]
[
.B -detach
]
[
.B -nomail
]
[
.B -no_filelocking
]
[
.B -pgppath <path>
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIpgpdaemon\fP programme is a daemon, run by the user, which can
automatically sign or decrypt PGP messages. PGPdaemon is part of the
PGPsendmail/Unix Suite.
.PP
PGPdaemon will periodically read the users' incoming mail spool
directory and will move the contents to another spool file, decrypting
any messages that it can.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-mailwait
This option will prevent PGPdaemon from processing any incoming mail
until it has received a passphrase from \fIsendpgppass\fP. If this
option is not specified, upon startup PGPdaemon will process any mail
in the users' spoolfile and will not decrypt any messages. This can be
annoying.
.TP
.B \-detach
This option will detach PGPdaemon from the parent process. PGPdaemon
will run until signalled with SIGTERM or SIGKILL. Note that PGPdaemon
does not put itself in the background.
.TP
.B \-nomail
This option disables processing of the incoming mail spool area by
PGPdaemon.
.TP
.B \-no_filelocking
This option disables file locking checks on the input and output spool
files. PGPdaemon will only use lockfiles with this option. This option
is useful with broken mail readers which lock their input spool (the
output spool file for PGPdaemon) unecessarily.
.TP
.B \-pgppath <path>
This option sets the PGPPATH environment variable for PGPdaemon and all
its child processes. This is an alternative to setting the PGPPATH
environment variable externally. The value of <path> must be a
directory containing the path specification.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file  $PGPPATH/PGPdaemon.config  (which must exist)
may contain several keywords, one per line. Each keyword may be
followed by whitespace and extra information. The \fIUSERID\fP keyword
is required.
Below are the permitted keywords:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI USERID
the users' PGP key userID must follow
.TP
.BI MAILWAIT
same effect as the \-mailwait argument
.TP
.BI IN_SPOOL_DIR
the input spool directory (default /usr/spool/mail) must follow. A
leading "~/" is permitted. If this is not set, the contents of your
\fIMAIL\fP environment variable, if it exists, is used for the entire
file name. If neither exist, the default /usr/spool/mail/$USER is
used.
.TP
.BI OUT_SPOOL_FILE
the output spool file (default $HOME/decrypted-mail) must follow. A
leading "~/" is permitted.
.TP
.BI MAIL_CHECK_INTERVAL
this must be followed by the desired number of seconds between checks
of the users' incoming spool file
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.BI /usr/spool/mail/<user>
the users' incoming mail spool
.TP
.BI $HOME/decrypted-mail
mail spool after decryption
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/pubring.pgp
the users' public keyring file
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/randseed.bin
the seed file for PGP
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/PGPdaemon.config
the users' configuration file
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/PGPdaemon.log.<hostname>
log of activity/errors
.\" .TP
.\" .BI $PGPPATH/PGPdaemon.log.sig
.\" signature certificate for logfile
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/PGPsendmail.debug
enable debugging if exists
.TP
.BI /tmp/PGPsendmail.debug.<UID>
debugging output file
.TP
.BI pgpsendmail/doc/README.PGPdaemon
distribution README (has more info.)
.PD
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The \fIPGPPATH\fP environment variable must be set to the directory
containing your secret keyring. The \fIMAIL\fP environment variable
may contain the name of your input mail spool file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR pgp (1),
.BR pgpsendmail (8),
.BR sendpgppass (1),
.BR pgppipe (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Richard Gooch (rgooch@atnf.csiro.au)
.SH AVAILABILITY
The PGPsendmail/Unix Suite is available for anonymous ftp from:

ftp.atnf.csiro.au:pub/people/rgooch
ftp.dhp.com:pub/crypto/pgp/PGPsendmail
ftp.ox.ac.uk:pub/crypto/pgp/utils
linux.nrao.edu:pub/src/pgp/PGPsendmail
