.\" Copyright (C) 1994  Richard Gooch
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.

.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Richard Gooch may be reached by email at  rgooch@atnf.csiro.au
.\" The postal address is:
.\"   Richard Gooch, c/o ATNF, P. O. Box 76, Epping, N.S.W., 2121, Australia.
.\"
.\"	pgpsendmail.8		Richard Gooch	8-DEC-1994
.\"
.TH PGPSENDMAIL 8 "8 Dec 1994" "PGPsendmail/Unix Suite"
.SH NAME
PGPsendmail \- drop\-in wrapper to  sendmail  to allow PGP encryption
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pgpsendmail
[
.B args
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIpgpsendmail\fP programme is a drop\-in wrapper to the standard
Unix  \fIsendmail\fP  programme. \fIpgpsendmail\fP may operate in two basic
modes. Each of these is described below:
.PP
If the PGPPATH environment variable does not exist, the real  \fIsendmail\fP
programme is executed with the same command line arguments.  Hence, it
is quite safe to move the original (real) /usr/lib/sendmail to
/usr/lib/sendmail.real and place PGPsendmail as /usr/lib/sendmail
since the system startup scripts (/etc/rc*) should not define PGPPATH.
The operation of \fIsendmail\fP as a daemon is not affected. Also, users who
do not use PGP are also completely unaffected (as they will not have a
PGPPATH environment variable).
.PP
If the PGPPATH environment variable does exist, PGPsendmail will check
all recipients in the message header (marked by "To: ", "Cc: " and
"Bcc: " keywords) to determine if they have a PGP public key in the
senders public keyring. By default, if all recipients have a public
key, the message is encrypted for all recipients prior to
transmission. The message is actually transmitted by the use of the
real \fIsendmail\fP programme.  If one or more recipients does not have PGP
public key, the message is not encrypted.  PGPsendmail extracts the
Email address of a recipient when determining if a PGP public key is
available.
.SH DEBUGGING
To enable verbose debugging output from PGPsendmail, create the file
\fI$PGPPATH/PGPsendmail.debug\fP. Upon each Email you send, the file
/tmp/PGPsendmail.debug.<UID> will be over\-written with a log for that
message.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.BI $PGPPATH/pubring.pgp
the users' public keyring file
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/randseed.bin
the seed file for PGP
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/PGPsendmail.config
the users' configuration file
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/PGPsendmail.debug
enable debugging if exists
.TP
.BI /tmp/PGPsendmail.debug.<UID>
debugging output file
.TP
.BI pgpsendmail/doc/README.PGPsendmail
distribution README (has more info.)
.PD
.SH BUGS
PGPsendmail doesn't work with UCBMail and NeXTMail on the NEXTSTEP. It
does work with Pine and Rnmail.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR pgp (1),
.BR pgpdaemon (8),
.BR sendpgppass (1),
.BR pgppipe (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Richard Gooch (rgooch@atnf.csiro.au)
.SH AVAILABILITY
The PGPsendmail/Unix Suite is available for anonymous ftp from:

ftp.atnf.csiro.au:pub/people/rgooch
ftp.dhp.com:pub/crypto/pgp/PGPsendmail
ftp.ox.ac.uk:pub/crypto/pgp/utils
linux.nrao.edu:pub/src/pgp/PGPsendmail
