
robt morris esq
My esteemed friend  Ever since leaving my comfortable  quar
ters at your house I have been journeying to this place and only
succeeded in reaching it yesterday   I  have  had  altogether  a
pleasant time the weather being fine and the atmosphere bracing
I shall remain here a week or ten days longer then ho for  the
plains  to  hunt the buffalo and encounter the savage grizzlies
How long I may be absent I cannot  now  determine  certainly  no
less than two years perhaps longer
   With regard to the box left in your charge I have a few words
to  say  and  if you will permit me give you some instructions
concerning it  It contains papers vitally affecting the fortunes
of myself and many others engaged in business with me and in the
event of my death its loss  might  be  irreparable   You  will
therefore  see  the  necessity of guarding it with vigilance and
care to prevent so great a catastrophe  It  also  contains  some
letters addressed to yourself and which will be necessary to en
lighten you concerning the business  in  which  we  are  engaged
Should  none of us ever return you will please preserve carefully
the box for the period of ten years from the date of this letter
and  if  I  or  no  one  with authority from me during that time
demands its restoration you will open it which can be  done  by
removing  the lock  You will find in addition to the papers ad
dressed to you other papers which will be unintelligible without
the  aid  of  a key to assist you  Such a key I have left in the
hands of a friend in this place sealed addressed  to  yourself
and  endorsed  not to be delivered until June 1832  by means of
this you will understand fully all you will be required to do
   I know you will cheerfully comply with my request thus adding
to  the  many obligations under which you have already placed me
In the meantime should death or sickness happen to you to which
all  are  liable  please select from among your friends some one
worthy and to him hand this letter and to him delegate your au
thority   I  have  been  thus  particular in my instructions in
consequence of the somewhat perilous enterprise in which  we  are
engaged  but  trust we shall meet long ere the time expires and
so save you this trouble  be the result what  it  may  however
the game is worth the candle and we will play it to the end
   With kindest wishes for your most excellent wife  compliments
to the ladies a good word to enquiring friends if there be any
and assurances of my highest esteem for  yourself  I  remain  as
ever

				Your sincere friend            TJb

