{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fdecor Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\s246\li720 \i\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{\s247\li720 \i\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720 \i\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720 \fs20\ul \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{\s250\li720 \b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\li360 \ul \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 4;}{\s252\li360 \b 
\sbasedon0\snext255 heading 3;}{\s253\sb120 \b\f2 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\sb240 \b\f2\ul \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s255\li720 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 Normal Indent;}{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\author Mark Riordan}
{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy29\hr20\min59}{\version1}{\edmins101}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern8310}}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \li180 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #}
 Article_window}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Article Window}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Article Window}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Article Window}{\f2 
\par 
\par An article window displays the text of an }{\f2\ul article}{\v\f2\ul article}{\f2 .  The article is initially positioned in the scrollable window to the beginning of the article text, with the article }{\f2\ul header}{\v\f2 header}{\f2 
 scrolled out of sight.  (If you scroll the window manually during the short time that the article is being retrieved from the }{\f2\ul news server}{\v\f2 news_server}{\f2 , the article is not repositioned.)
\par 
\par }{\f2\uldb File Menu Commands}{\v\f2\uldb File_menu_commands}{\f2\uldb 
\par View Menu Commands}{\v\f2\uldb View_menu_commands}{\f2\uldb 
\par Respond Menu Commands}{\v\f2\uldb Respond_menu_commands}{\f2\uldb 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li360\tx360 {\f2 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} File_menu_commands}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} File Menu Commands}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} File Menu Commands}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 File Menu Commands
\par 
\par Save
\par \tab }{\f2 Saves the }{\f2\ul article}{\v\f2 article}{\f2  in this}{\f2\uldb  Article Window}{\v\f2 article_window}{\f2  to a file.  The filename from the most recent }{\b\f2 Save As...}{\f2  is used.  If no }{\b\f2 Save As...}{\f2 
 has been done in this session, }{\b\f2 Save}{\f2  acts just like }{\b\f2 Save As...}{\f2 .}{\b\f2 
\par 
\par Save As...
\par \tab }{\f2 Brings up a dialog box asking the user for a file name to which the current article should be saved.  The dialog box also contains a check box labelled }{\b\f2 Append to this file}{\f2 
.  If this box is checked, WinVN will write the article to the end of the specified file.  Otherwise, WinVN will overwrite the file with the article.
\par 
\par \tab Press }{\b\f2 OK}{\f2  to actually save the article; press }{\b\f2 Cancel}{\f2  if you have changed your mind about saving the article.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Exit}{\f2 
\par \tab Closes this window.}{\b\f2 
\par \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} View_menu_commands}}{\b\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} View Menu Commands}}{\b\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} View M
enu Commands}}{\b\f2  View Menu Commands}{\f2 
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Next Article
\par \tab }{\f2 Causes WinVN to fetch and display the next article in this }{\f2\ul newsgroup}{\v\f2 newsgroup}{\f2 .  If there is no next article, WinVN says so.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Next with same Subject
\par \tab }{\f2 Causes WinVN to search the subsequent articles in this newsgroup for an article with the same subject as the current article.  (Leading "Re:" notations are ignored.)  If a matching article is found, it is retrieved and displayed in the current 
}{\f2\uldb Article Window}{\v\f2 article_window}{\f2 .  Otherwise, WinVN informs you that there are no more articles with that subject.
\par \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Respond_menu_commands}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Respond Menu Commands}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Respo
nd Menu Commands}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Respond Menu Commands
\par 
\par Followup Article
\par \tab }{\f2 Creates a }{\f2\uldb Posting Window}{\v\f2 posting_window}{\f2  with the appropriate }{\f2\ul header}{\v\f2 header}{\f2  and text to compose an article that responds to the }{\f2\ul article}{\v\f2 article}{\f2  in the current }{\f2\uldb 
Article Window}{\v\f2 article_window}{\f2 .  See }{\f2\uldb Posting an Article}{\v\f2 posting_an_article}{\f2 .}{\b\f2 
\par }{\f2 
\par }{\b\f2 via Mail}{\f2 
\par }{\b\f2 \tab }{\f2 Creates a }{\f2\uldb Mail}{\f2\uldb  Window}{\v\f2 mail_window}{\f2  with the appropriate }{\f2\ul header}{\v\f2 header}{\f2  and text to compose an }{\f2\ul electronic mail message}{\v\f2 electronic_mail_message}{\f2  to the author of 
 the current article.  See }{\f2\uldb Mailing a Message}{\v\f2 mailing_a_message}{\f2 .}{\b\f2 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li360 {\f2 \page 
\par }}