{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fdecor Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title General philosophical topics}{\author Mark Riordan}
{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy30\hr17\min21}{\version1}{\edmins183}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern8310}}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \li180 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Usenet_
Etiquette}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Usenet Etiquette}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Usenet Etiquette}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Usenet Etiquette}{\f2 
\par 
\par The ease of }{\f2\ul posting}{\v\f2 posting}{\f2  }{\f2\uldb Usenet News}{\v\f2 usenet_news}{\f2  }{\f2\ul articles}{\v\f2 article}{\f2  causes many inappropriate articles to be sent to the network.  An article can be inappropriate if it:
\par 
\par }\pard \fi-540\li720\tx360 {\f2 \tab --\tab Is devoid of useful information or ideas.
\par \tab --\tab Is sent to inappropriate }{\f2\ul newsgroup(s)}{\v\f2 newsgroup}{\f2 .
\par \tab --\tab Is really intended for a particular individual, rather than the entire }{\f2\ul Usenet}{\v\f2 usenet}{\f2  community.
\par \tab --\tab Contains rude or insulting remarks.
\par }\pard \fi-540\li720 {\f2 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f2 Please compose your articles thoughtfully.  Consider sending an }{\f2\ul electronic mail message}{\v\f2 electronic_mail_message}{\f2  rather than posting an article, if appropriate.  
\par 
\par Be aware of the fact that many sites must pay long-distance telephone charges to receive your article.  Also be aware of the fact that some of the popular newsgroups have tens of thousands of readers.  10,000 people each reading your article for 20 second
s spend a total of 55 hours reading your article.
\par 
\par See }{\f2\uldb Posting an Article}{\v\f2 posting_an_article}{\f2  and }{\f2\uldb Mailing a Message}{\v\f2 mailing_a_message}{\f2 .\page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} newsrc}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 
\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} The NEWSRC File}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} newsrc}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 The NEWSRC File}{\f2 
\par }\pard \li187 {\f2 
\par In order to keep track of your viewing history, WinVN records information about }{\f2\ul newsgroups}{\v\f2 newsgroup}{\f2  in a file named NEWSRC.  This file contains a list of all newsgroups.  For each newsgroup, WinVN records whether it is subscribed an
d which articles have been seen.
\par 
\par Many Unix-based }{\f2\ul news readers}{\v\f2 news_reader}{\f2  record this information in a file named }{\b\f2 .newsrc}{\f2 .  WinVN uses the same file format to provide compatibility with these programs.
\par 
\par See }{\f2\uldb Group Menu  Commands}{\v\f2 group_menu\-_commands}{\f2 .\page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Configuring_winvn}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Configuring WinVN}}{\f2  }{
\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Configuring WinVN}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Configuring WinVN}{\f2 
\par 
\par WinVN offers a number of configuration options.  All are accessible from the }{\b\f2 Options}{\f2  menu of the }{\f2\uldb main window}{\v\f2 main_window}{\f2 .  The }{\b\f2 Configure Comm...}{\f2  option allows you to set communications parameters.  These
 parameters must be set properly for WinVN to work.
\par 
\par The }{\b\f2 Configure Personal Info...}{\f2  and }{\b\f2 Configure Miscellaneous...}{\f2  options allow you to specify information about yourself and to set WinVN preferences.  This information is not vital to the proper operation of WinVN.
\par 
\par See }{\f2\uldb Options Menu Commands}{\v\f2 options_menu_commands}{\f2 .\page 
\par 
\par }}