{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fdecor Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\s246\li720 \i\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{\s247\li720 \i\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720 \i\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720 \fs20\ul \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{\s250\li720 \b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\li360 \ul \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 4;}{\s252\li360 \b 
\sbasedon0\snext255 heading 3;}{\s253\sb120 \b\f2 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\sb240 \b\f2\ul \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s255\li720 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext255 Normal Indent;}{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title Procedures}
{\subject WinVN procedures}{\author Mark Riordan}{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy29\hr22\min22}{\version1}{\edmins56}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern8310}}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \li180 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Posting_window}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Posting Window}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Posting Window}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Posting Window}{
\f2 
\par 
\par The posting window allows you to compose and then }{\f2\ul post}{\v\f2 posting}{\f2  an }{\f2\ul article}{\v\f2 article}{\f2  to the network.  See }{\f2\uldb Posting an Article}{\v\f2 posting_an_article}{\f2 .
\par 
\par }{\f2\uldb Posting Menu Commands}{\v\f2\uldb posting_menu_commands}{\f2\uldb 
\par Edit Menu Commands}{\v\f2\uldb edit_menu_commands}{\f2\uldb 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li360 {\f2 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} posting_menu_commands}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Posting Menu Commands}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Posting Menu Commands}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Posting Menu Commands}{\f2 
\par 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li360\tx360 {\b\f2 Post}{\b\f2  completed article}{\f2 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li360\sl240\tx360 {\f2 \tab Sends your  completed }{\f2\ul article}{\v\f2 article}{\f2  in this}{\f2\uldb  Posting Window}{\v\f2\uldb posting_window}{\f2  to the }{\f2\ul news server}{\v\f2 news_server}{\f2  for propagation throughout the n
etwork.}{\b\f2 
\par }{\f2 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li360\tx360 {\b\f2 Cancel
\par \tab }{\f2 Closes this window.  If you haven't already posted this article, its contents are lost.}{\f2 
\par \page }{\fs16 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Edit_menu_commands}}{\f2  }{\fs16 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Edit Menu Commands}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Edit Menu Commands}
}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Edit Menu Commands}{\f2 
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Undo}{\f2 
\par \tab Reverses the effects of the most recent change to this window.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Cut
\par \tab }{\f2 Deletes the selected text and saves it in the clipboard.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Copy
\par \tab }{\f2 Copies the selected text into the clipboard.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Paste
\par \tab }{\f2 Retrieves the text most recently copied or cut to the clipboard into the current window.  The text is inserted at the current cursor position.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Clear
\par \tab }{\f2 Deselects all text in the current window.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Select All
\par \tab }{\f2 Selects all text in the current window.  Generally used just prior to a Copy operation to save the contents of the window to the clipboard.}{\b\f2 
\par }{\fs16 \page #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Mail_window}}{\f2  }{\fs16 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Mail Window}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Mail Window}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 
Mail Window}{\f2 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f2 
\par The mail window allows to you compose and then send an }{\f2\ul electronic mail message}{\v\f2\uldb electronic_mail_message}{\f2 .  See }{\f2\uldb Mailing a Message}{\v\f2\uldb mailing_a_message}{\f2\uldb .}{\f2 
\par 
\par }{\f2\uldb Mail Menu Commands}{\v\f2\uldb mail_menu_commands}{\f2\uldb 
\par Edit Menu Commands}{\v\f2\uldb edit_menu_commands}{\f2\uldb 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li360 {\f2 \page }{\fs16 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Mail_menu_commands}}{\f2  }{\fs16 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Mail Menu Commands}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {
\fs16\up6 K} Mail Menu Commands}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Mail Menu Commands}{\f2 
\par 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li360\tx360 {\b\f2 Mail completed message}{\f2 
\par \tab Sends your completed }{\f2\ul electronic mail message}{\v\f2\ul electronic_mail_message}{\f2  to its recipient(s).
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Cancel
\par \tab }{\f2 Closes this }{\f2\uldb Mail Window}{\v\f2 mail_window}{\f2 .  If you have not already sent the message you were composing, it is lost.\page 
\par }\pard \fi-180\li360 {\f2 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f2 
\par 
\par 
\par }}