{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fdecor Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title Procedures, part 2}{\author Mark Riordan}
{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy30\hr21\min18}{\version1}{\edmins16}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern8310}}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \li180 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #}
 Subscribing_to_newsgroups}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Subscribing to Newsgroups}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Subscribing to Newsgroups}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 
Subscribing to Newsgroups}{\f2 
\par 
\par }\pard \li180\sl240 {\b\f2 What is "Subscribing"?
\par }{\f2 
\par "Subscribing" to a }{\f2\ul newsgroup}{\v\f2 newsgroup}{\f2  means telling a }{\f2\ul news reader}{\v\f2 news_reader}{\f2 
 that you are interested in tracking, selecting, and viewing articles in that group.  Most news readers support the concept of "subscribing" to newsgroups as a means of simplifying the way that you interact with the news reader.  There are probably over 1
000 newsgroups in which you are not interested; if you are not subscribed to these newgroups, a news reader need not bother prompting you with information on these groups.
\par }\pard \li180 {\f2 
\par WinVN also supports the concept of subscribing to a newsgroup, but primarily as a means of providing compatibility with other news readers.  WinVN's windowed, point-and-click interface makes it less necessary for it to resort to the somewhat artificial di
stinction between newsgroups in which you are interested and newsgroups in which you are not interested.  You can always access any newsgroup simply by scrolling to its name and clicking on it.  
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Subscribing to New Newsgroups
\par }{\f2 
\par When WinVN starts up, it can check the }{\f2\ul news server}{\v\f2 news_server}{\f2  to see if any new groups have been created since your last session.  (See }{\f2\uldb Configuring WinVN}{\v\f2 configuring_winvn}{\f2 
.)  If WinVN checks and finds that new newsgroups do exist, it displays their names in a scrollable list in a dialog box.  You select the groups to which you want to subscribe by clicking on
 their names.  When you have finished making your selections, click on the }{\b\f2 OK}{\f2  button.  Alternatively, you can click on the }{\b\f2 Cancel}{\f2  button and WinVN will ignore the new newsgroups altogether.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Subscribing to Existing Newsgroups
\par }{\f2 
\par Newsgroups to which you are subscribed are displayed in black at the top of the }{\f2\uldb main window}{\v\f2 main_window}{\f2 .  Following these groups are all of the unsubscribed group names, in red and sorted alphabetically.  
\par 
\par You subscribe and unsubscribe to newsgroups by selecting them in the main window and using }{\f2\uldb Group Menu Commands}{\v\f2 group_menu_commands}{\f2 
.  Select groups by clicking on their names.  A selected group appears in reverse video (black background).  The }{\b\f2 Subscribe selected groups}{\f2 , }{\b\f2 Unsubscribe selected groups}{\f2 , and }{\b\f2 Move selected groups to Top}{\f2 
 menu options operate on all currently selected newsgroups.
\par 
\par Subscribing to a newsgroup moves its name to the bottom of the list of subscribed groups in the top portion of the main window.  Unsubscribing to a newsgroup causes it to be moved to its proper alphabetical place in the unsubscribed portion of the main wi
ndow.\page 
\par }\pard 
\par }