{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fdecor Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}{\f3\fmodern Pica;}{\f4\froman Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info
{\author Microsoft}{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy1\hr22\min46}{\version1}{\edmins1526}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern8310}}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \li180 \fs20 {\f2\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {
\fs16\up6 #} Usenet_News}}{\f2  }{\f2\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Usenet News}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Usenet}}{\f2  }{\plain \b\f2 Usenet News}{\f2 
\par 
\par The }{\f2\uldb Usenet}{\v\f2 Usenet}{\f2  News, or Netnews, system is a kind of distributed }{\f2\ul bulletin board system}{\v\f2 BBS}{\f2  run on thousands of computers world-wide.  Users of Usenet News exchange views and information by writing }{\f2\ul 
articles}{\v\f2 article}{\f2 , which are then transmitted automatically amoungst the computers in the network.  Once }{\f2\ul posted}{\v\f2 posting}{\f2 
, an article can by read by others days, hours, or even minutes later, depending upon their computer's type of network link to Usenet.
\par 
\par Articles are organized by topic area into }{\f2\ul newsgroups}{\v\f2 newsgroup}{\f2 , of which there are currently over 1000.  \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Overview_of_WinVN}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Overview of WinVN}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Overview of WinVN}}{\f2  }{\plain \b\f2 Overview of WinVN}{\plain \f2 
\par 
\par }{\f2 WinVN is a Microsoft Windows-based }{\f2\ul news reader}{\v\f2 news_reader}{\f2 .  Like other news readers, it can be used to select, view, and write }{\f2\uldb Usenet News}{\v\f2 Usenet_news }{\f2\ul articles}{\v\f2 article}{\f2 
.  WinVN can also be used to send (but not receive) }{\f2\ul electronic mail messages}{\v\f2 electronic_mail_message}{\f2 .
\par 
\par WinVN offers a more visual approach to Usenet News than most other news readers.  WinVN allows you to easily navigate amoungst }{\f2\ul newsgroups}{\v\f2 newsgroup}{\f2  and articles via its point-and-click interface.
\par 
\par In normal operation, WinVN displays three types of windows:  the }{\f2\uldb main window}{\v\f2 main_window}{\f2 , which displays a list of all newsgroups; one or more }{\f2\uldb group windows}{\v\f2 group_window}{\f2 
, each of which displays a list of the articles in a newsgroup; and one or more }{\f2\uldb article windows}{\v\f2 article_window}{\f2 
, which each displays an article.  Double-clicking on a newsgroup or article name causes that item to be displayed in a separate window.
\par 
\par When you want to write an article, WinVN displays a }{\f2\uldb posting window}{\v\f2 posting_window}{\f2  for that purpose.  See }{\f2\uldb Posting an Article}{\v\f2 posting_an_article}{\f2 
.  Similarly, when you want to write an electronic mail message, WinVN displays a }{\f2\uldb mail window}{\v\f2 mail_window}{\f2  to accept your text.  See }{\f2\uldb Mailing a Message}{\v\f2 mailing_a_message}{\f2 .
\par 
\par WinVN offers a number of configuration options; see }{\f2\uldb Options Menu Commands}{\v\f2 options_menu_commands}{\f2 .
\par \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} About_the_author}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} History of WinVN}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} author}}{\f2  }
{\plain \b\f2 History of WinVN}{\f2 
\par 
\par WinVN was written at home as an own-time project by me, Mark Riordan, a systems programmer at Michigan State University.  The program and its source code have been placed in the public domain.  WinVN is not a product of MSU or any other institution.  

\par 
\par Serioius development of WinVN began in September 1989.  It continues, in fits and starts.  A Macintosh version was developed, but it is no longer in sync with the latest Windows version and is not being distributed (I think!)
.  The recent release of a number of good Macintosh newsreaders has convinced me to cease development of the Mac version.  Besides, I don't own a Mac.
\par 
\par You can correspond with the author of WinVN at the email addresses }{\f3 riordanmr@clvax1.cl.msu.edu }{\f2 or}{\f3  17362MRR@MSU.BITNET}{\f2 .
\par 
\par Mark R.   Lansing, Michigan    September 1991
\par }}