{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fdecor Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title Procedures}{\subject WinVN procedures}
{\author Mark Riordan}{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy29\hr22\min22}{\version1}{\edmins679}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern8310}}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \li180 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {
\fs16\up6 #} Posting_an_article}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Posting an Article}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Posting an Article}}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Posting an Article}{\f2 
\par 
\par You can }{\f2\ul post}{\v\f2 posting}{\f2  an }{\f2\ul article}{\v\f2 article}{\f2  either as a followup to a previous article, or as a "brand new" article.  Note that often it is preferable to respond to an article via an }{\f2\ul electronic mail message
}{\v\f2 electronic_mail_message}{\f2  rather than by another article; see }{\f2\uldb Usenet Etiquette}{\v\f2 usenet_etiquette}{\f2  and }{\f2\uldb Mailing a Message}{\v\f2 mailing_a_message}{\f2 .
\par 
\par An article contains a }{\f2\ul header}{\v\f2 header}{\f2  followed by the text of the article.  Each article is directed to one or more }{\f2\ul newsgroups}{\v\f2 newsgroup}{\f2  by a "Newsgroups:" line in the header.  If you want to send an article to mo
re than one newsgroup, type the names of the newsgroups on the "Newsgroups:" line, separated by commas.  The text of an article is separated from the header by a blank line.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Followup Articles
\par }{\f2 
\par A followup article has the same "Subject:" line as the article which inspired it.  (The notation "Re:" is added.)  This makes it easier for other }{\f2\uldb Usenet News}{\v\f2 usenet_news}{\f2  users browsing the newsgroup to follow the discussion.  Also,
 a followup article typically selectively quotes the earlier article, again to make the discussion easier to follow.
\par 
\par You start composing a followup article by selecting the }{\b\f2 Followup Article}{\f2  option of an }{\f2\uldb article window's}{\v\f2 article_window}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Respond}{\f2  menu.  (See }{\f2\uldb Respond Menu Commands}{\v\f2 respond_menu_commands}{
\f2 .)  WinVN creates a }{\f2\uldb posting window}{\v\f2 posting_window}{\f2 .  The }{\f2\ul header}{\v\f2 header}{\f2  of the article in this window is filled in with information taken from WinVN configuration options and from the header of the reference
d article.  (See }{\f2\uldb Configuring WinVN}{\v\f2 configuring_winvn}{\f2 .)  The full text of the referenced article is also included in the posting window, with each line preceded by a "}{\b\f2 >}{\f2 " to indicate that another article is being quoted
.  
\par 
\par Fill in the text of your response.  You should delete irrelevant quoted lines in your followup article.  
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 New Articles
\par }{\f2 
\par You start composing a "brand new" article by selecting the }{\b\f2 New posting}{\f2  option from the }{\b\f2 Articles}{\f2  menu of a }{\f2\uldb group window}{\v\f2 group_window}{\f2 .  (See }{\f2\uldb Articles Menu Commands}{\v\f2 articles_menu_commands}
{\f2 .)  WinVN creates a }{\f2\uldb posting window}{\v\f2 posting_window}{\f2  for your new article.  The "Newsgroup:" line contains the name of the newsgroup of the group window; you can edit this if necessary.  Other information is based on the way you 
configured WinVN.
\par 
\par You must fill in an appropriate subject for the new article.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Sending the Article
\par }{\f2 
\par When you have completed composing your article, you can send it to the network or cancel it.  See }{\f2\uldb Posting Menu Commands}{\v\f2 posting_menu_commands}{\f2 .  After you have posted the article, you can close the posting window.\page }{\fs16\up6 #
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 #} Mailing_a_message}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Mailing a Message}}{\f2  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \fs20 {\fs16\up6 K} Mailing a Message}}{\f2  }{
\b\f2 Mailing a Message}{\f2 
\par 
\par You can use WinVN to send an }{\f2\ul electronic mail message}{\v\f2 electronic_mail_message}{\f2  either as a personal reply to the author of an article, or as an independent message.  
\par 
\par A message contains a }{\f2\ul header}{\v\f2 header}{\f2  followed by the text of the message.  A message is directed to one or more }{\f2 recipients}{\f2  by a "To:" line in the header.  If you want to send a message to more than one person, type the elec
tronic mail addresses of the recipients on the "To:" line, separated by commas.  The text of a message is separated from the header by a blank line.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Reply Messages
\par }{\f2 
\par A reply message has the same "Subject:" line as the article which inspired it.  (The notation "Re:" is added.)   Also, a reply message typically selectively quotes the article which inspired it, to give some context to the recipient.
\par 
\par You start composing a reply message by selecting the }{\b\f2 via Mail}{\f2  option of an }{\f2\uldb article window's}{\v\f2 article_window}{\f2  }{\b\f2 Respond}{\f2  menu.  See }{\f2\uldb Respond Menu Commands}{\v\f2 respond_menu_commands}{\f2 .  WinVN c
reates a }{\f2\uldb mail window}{\v\f2 mail_window}{\f2 .  The }{\f2\ul header}{\v\f2 header}{\f2  of the message in this window is filled in with information taken from WinVN configuration options and from the header of the referenced article.  (See }{
\f2\uldb Configuring WinVN}{\v\f2 configuring_winvn}{\f2 .)  The full text of the referenced article is also included in this window, with each line preceded by a "}{\b\f2 >}{\f2 " to indicate that an article is being quoted.  
\par 
\par Fill in the text of your message.  You should delete irrelevant quoted lines. 
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 New Messages
\par }{\f2 
\par You start composing a "brand new" message--one that does not reference an article--by selecting the }{\b\f2 Compose mail message}{\f2  option from the }{\b\f2 Optionss}{\f2  menu of the }{\f2\uldb main window}{\v\f2 main_window}{\f2 .  (See }{\f2\uldb Op
tions Menu Commands}{\v\f2 options_menu_commands}{\f2 .)  WinVN creates a }{\f2\uldb mail}{\f2\uldb  window}{\v\f2 mail_window}{\f2  for your new article.  Your name and organization are filled in based on the way you configured WinVN.
\par 
\par You must fill in an appropriate subject for the new article on the "Subject:" line, and a recipient on the "To:" line.
\par 
\par }{\b\f2 Sending the Message
\par }{\f2 
\par When you have completed composing your message, you can send it or cancel it.  See }{\f2\uldb Mail Menu Commands}{\v\f2 mail_menu_commands}{\f2 .  After you have sent the message, you can close the mail window.\page 
\par 
\par 
\par }}