{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}{\f5\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f6\fmodern Courier New;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;
\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \f3\fs16\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title Procedures, part 2}{\author Mark Riordan}{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy30\hr21\min18}{\version1}{\edmins188}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern16417}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \li180 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Subscribing_to_newsgroups}}{
\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Subscribing to Newsgroups}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Subscribing to Newsgroups}{\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180\sl240 {\b\f4 What is "Subscribing"?
\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard \li180\sl240 {\f4 "Subscribing" to a }{\f4\ul newsgroup}{\v\f4 newsgroup}{\f4  means telling a }{\f4\ul news reader}{\v\f4 news}{\v\f4 _reader}{\f4 
 that you are interested in tracking, selecting, and viewing articles in that group.  Most news readers support the concept of "subscribing" to newsgroups as a means of simplifying the way that you interact with the news reader.  There are probably over 1
}{\f4 000 newsgroups in which you are not interested; if you are not subscribed to these newgroups, a news reader need not bother prompting you with information on these groups.
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 WinVN also supports the concept of subscribing to a newsgroup, but primaril}{\f4 
y as a means of providing compatibility with other news readers.  WinVN's windowed, point-and-click interface makes it less necessary for it to resort to the somewhat artificial distinction between newsgroups in which you are interested and newsgroups in 
}{\f4 which you are not interested.  You can always access any newsgroup simply by scrolling to its name and clicking on it.  
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\b\f4 Subscribing to New Newsgroups
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 When WinVN starts up, it can check the }{\f4\ul news server}{\v\f4 news_server}{\f4  to see if any new groups have been cre}{\f4 ated since your last session.  (See }{\f4\uldb Configuring WinVN}{\v\f4 configuring_winvn}{\f4 
.)  If WinVN checks and finds that new newsgroups do exist, it displays their names in a scrollable list in a dialog box.  You select the groups to which you want to subscribe by clicking on their names.  When you have finished making your selections, cli
}{\f4 ck on the }{\b\f4 OK}{\f4  button.  Alternatively, you can click on the }{\b\f4 Cancel}{\f4  button and WinVN will ignore the new newsgroups altogether.
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\b\f4 Subscribing to Existing Newsgroups
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 Newsgroups to which y}{\f4 ou are subscribed are displayed in black at the top of the }{\f4\uldb main window}{\v\f4 main_window}{\f4 .  Following these groups are all of the unsubscribed group names, in red and sorted alphabetically.  

\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 You subscribe and unsubscribe to newsgroups by selecting them in the main window and using }{\f4\uldb Group Menu Commands}{\v\f4 group_menu_commands}{\f4 
.  Select groups by clicking on their names.  A selected group appears in reverse video (black background).  The }{\b\f4 Subscribe selected groups}{\f4 , }{\b\f4 Unsubscribe selected groups}{\f4 , and }{\b\f4 Move selected groups to}{\b\f4  Top}{\f4 
 menu options operate on all currently selected newsgroups.
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
Subscribing to a newsgroup moves its name to the bottom of the list of subscribed groups in the top portion of the main window.  Unsubscribing to a newsgroup causes it to be moved to its proper alphabetical place in the unsubscribed portion of the main wi
}{\f4 ndow.\page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Marking_Articles_as_Read}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Marking Articles as Read}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Marking Articles as Read}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Marking Articles as Read}{\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 
\par }\pard \li180 {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Catching Up}}{\f5 Normally, WinVN keeps track of which articles you have read.  (See }{\f5\uldb Group Window}{\v\f5 group_window}{\f5 
.)  Sometimes, you may want WinVN to think that you have r}{\f5 
ead articles when you have not.  You may have read the articles with another newsreader or with a different copy of WinVN, or you may have been on vacation and want to ignore the articles that accumulated in a }{\f5\ul newsgroup}{\v\f5 newsgroup}{\f5 
 while you were away.
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 You can manually mark articles in a group as having been read by double-clicking the right mouse button on an article in the Group Window.  This marks all articles from the beginning of the newsgroup to the cursor as having been read.

\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 To toggle the "read" }{\f5 status of a single article in a group, point the mouse cursor at the article subject and click on the middle mouse button.  You can also hold the shift key down and use the left mouse button.}{\f4 \page }{
\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Authorizing_yourself_to_the_news_server}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Authorizing Yourself to the News Server}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Authorizing Yourself to the News Server}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Authorizing Yourself to the News Server}{\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 Some Usenet }{\f5\ul news server}{\f5 s require you to present a username and password in order to gain access to certain features.  For instance, you may need a username and password to be able to post to any }{\f5\ul newsgroup}{\v\f4 
newsgroup}{\f5 , or to be able to read certain newsgroups.  The process o}{\f5 f providing a username and password, and the subsequent checking done by the server, is called "authorizing".  
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 WinVN supports the AUTHINFO }{\f5\ul NNTP}{\v\f5\ul NNTP}{\f5  command for authorization.  You can provide a username and password; see Configure Comm... under }{\b\f4\uldb Options Menu Commands}{\b\f4 .  
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 If you have saved a username as part of your WinVN configuration, when WinVN is launched, it attempts to authorize you with the news server.  If you have saved a password as well, WinVN provides the username and password to the news se}
{\f4 rver without prompting you.  If you have saved a username but have left the password field empty, WinVN brings up the Configure Comm... dialog box to allow you to enter your password before completing authorization.  
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
If you choose to save your news server password, WinVN encrypts it before recording it in the configuration file.  However, given the availability of WinVN source code, a determined attacker with access to your configuration file could decrypt your passwo
}{\f4 rd without too much effort.  Therefo}{\f4 re, for the best security, force WinVN to always prompt you for the password by never saving the password, as described above.
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 
Note that because WinVN attempts to authorize you to the server only when WinVN is launched, you cannot be authorized the very first time you run WinVN.  You must configure your username, click on "OK & Save", exit WinVN, and restart it.\page }{\fs16\up6 
#{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Getting_WinVN}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Getting a Copy of WinVN}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {
\fs16\up6 K} Getting a Copy of WinVN}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Getting a Copy of WinVN}{\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 WinVN is distributed via anonymous FTP from the hosts  }{\f6 titan.ksc.nasa.gov}{\f5   and  }{\f6 ripem.msu.edu}{\f5 .  The definitive }{\f5 version is always on  }{\f6 titan}{\f5 
.  Copies of WinVN can often be found at other sites, but they are sometimes badly out-of-date.  (The  }{\f6 ripem}{\f5   site  tends to lag behind  titan  by several days.)
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 Both source code and binaries for various platforms are distributed.  }{\f5 
The WinVN source code can be compiled for a number of platforms, including several different Windows versions (for different vendors' networking suites), and Windows NT on Intel and Alpha AXP machines.  }{\f5 Distributions are in the form of }{\f6 .ZIP}{
\f5  files; be sure to use binary mode FTP to do the transfer.}{\f5 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 As of this writing, WinVN source code distributions have file names starting with }{\f6 WINVNSRC}{\f5 ,}{\f5   binary distributions for Winsock (}{\f5 a Windows networking API }{\f5 supported by a number of}{\f5 
 TCP/IP vendors) have names starting with }{\f6 WINVNSTD}{\f5 , and binary distributions for DEC Pathworks have names starting with }{\f6 WINVNPWK}{\f5 .  See the FTP sites for other files. 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 Here is a sample FTP session.  User-typed entries are in }{\b\f5 bold}{\f5 .
\par }\pard \li180 {\f5 
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 $ }{\b\f6 ftp titan.ksc.nasa.gov}{\f6 
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 ftp: connect to address 128.159.1.1: Host is unreachable
\par }{\f6 Trying 128.159.4.20...
\par }{\f6 Connected to titan.ksc.nasa.gov.
\par }{\f6 220 TITAN.KSC.NASA.GOV MultiNet FTP Server Process ...
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 Name (titan.ksc.nasa.gov:mrr): }{\b\f6 anonymous}{\f6 
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 331 anonymous user ok. Send real ide}{\f6 nt as password.
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 Password: }{\b\f6 fred}{\f6 
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 230-Guest User FRED logged into DISK$SHARE:[ANONYMOUS] at ...
\par }{\f6 230 Directory and access restrictions apply
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 ftp> }{\b\f6 binary}{\f6 
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 200 Type I ok.
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 ftp> }{\b\f6 cd [.pub.win3.winvn]}{\f6 
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 250 Connected to DISK$SHARE:[ANONYMOUS.PUB.WIN3.WINVN].
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 ftp> }{\b\f6 dir}{\f6 
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 200 Port 9.250 at Host }{\plain \i\fs20\lang1033 ww.xx.yy.zz}{\f6  accepted.
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 150 List started.
\par }{\f6 
\par }{\f6 DISK$SHARE:[ANONYMOUS.PUB.WIN3.WINVN]
\par }{\f6 
\par }{\f6 WINVNPWK083_2.ZIP;2       170   8-DEC-1993 19:35 [NASA,DUMOULIN]
\par }{\f6 WINVNSRC083_2.ZIP;1       657   8-DEC-1993 15:14 [NASA,DUMOULIN]
\par }{\f6 WINVNSTD}{\f6 083_2.ZIP;1       167   8-DEC-1993 15:15 [NASA,DUMOULIN]
\par }{\f6 WINVN_DOC.ZIP;1           192  23-FEB-1993 11:33 [NASA,DUMOULIN]
\par }{\f6 ...
\par }{\f6 ftp> }{\b\f6 get winvnstd083_2.zip}{\f6 
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 200 Port 10.196 at Host }{\plain \i\fs20\lang1033 ww.xx.yy.zz}{\f6  accepted.
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 150 IMAGE retrieve of DISK$SHARE:[ANONYMOUS.PUB.WIN3.WINVN]WINVN...
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 226 Transfer completed.  }{\plain \i\fs20\lang1033 xxxxx}{\f6  (8) bytes transferred.
\par }\pard \li360 {\f6 ...
\par }{\f6 ftp> }{\b\f6 quit}{\f6 
\par }{\f6 $ }{\f6 
\par }}