{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}{\f5\fmodern Pica;}{\f6\froman Roman;}{\f7\fmodern Courier New;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;
\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \f3\fs16\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\author Microsoft}{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy1\hr22\min46}{\version1}{\edmins1567}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern16417}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \li180 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Usenet_News}}{\f4  }{\f4\up6 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Usenet News}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Usenet}}{\f4  }{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Usenet News}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 The }{\f4\uldb Usenet}{\v\f4 Usenet}{\f4  News, or Netnews, system is a kind of distributed }{\f4\ul bulletin board system}{\v\f4 BBS}{\f4  run on thousand}{\f4 
s of computers world-wide.  Users of Usenet News exchange views and information by writing }{\f4\ul articles}{\v\f4 article}{\f4 , which are then transmitted automatically amoungst the computers in the network.  Once }{\f4\ul posted}{\v\f4 posting}{\f4 
, an article can by read by others days, hours, or even minutes later, depending upon their computer's type of network link to Usenet.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Articles are organized by topic area into }{\f4\ul newsgroups}{\v\f4 newsgroup}{\f4 , of which there are currently over 3000.  }{\f4 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Overview_of_WinVN}}{\f4  }{
\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Overview of WinVN}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Overview of WinVN}}{\f4  }{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 Overview of WinVN}{\plain 
\f4\lang1033 
\par }{\plain \f4\lang1033 
\par }{\f4 WinVN is a Microsoft Windows-based }{\f4\ul news reader}{\v\f4 news_reader}{\f4 .  Like other news readers, it can be used to select, view, and write }{\f4\uldb Usenet News}{\v\f4 Usenet_news }{\f4\ul articles}{\v\f4 article}{\f4 
.  WinVN can also be used to send (but not receive) }{\f4\ul electronic mail messages}{\v\f4 electronic_mail_message}{\f4 .}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 WinVN offers a more visual approach to Usenet News than most other news readers.  WinVN allows you to easily navigate amoungst }{\f4\ul newsgroups}{\v\f4 newsgroup}{\f4  and articles via its point-and-click interface.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 In normal operation, WinVN displays three types of windows:  the }{\f4\uldb main window}{\v\f4 main_window}{\f4 , which displays a list of all newsgroups; one or more }{\f4\uldb group windows}{\v\f4 group_window}{\f4 
, each of which displays a list of the articles in a newsgroup; and one or more }{\f4\uldb article windows}{\v\f4 article_window}{\f4 
, which each displays an article.  Double-clicking on a newsgroup or article name causes that item to be displayed in a separate window.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 When you want to write an article, WinVN displays a }{\f4\uldb posting window}{\v\f4 posting_window}{\f4  for that purpos}{\f4 e.  See }{\f4\uldb Posting an Article}{\v\f4 posting_an_article}{\f4 
.  Similarly, when you want to write an electronic mail message, WinVN displays a }{\f4\uldb mail window}{\v\f4 mail_window}{\f4  to accept your text.  See }{\f4\uldb Mailing a Message}{\v\f4 mailing_a_message}{\f4 .}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 WinVN offers a number of configuration options; see }{\f4\uldb Options Menu Commands}{\v\f4 options_menu_commands}{\f4 .}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} About_the_author}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} History of WinVN}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 
\f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} author}}{\f4  }{\plain \b\f4\lang1033 History of WinVN}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
WinVN was written at home as an own-time project by me, Mark Riordan, a systems programmer at Michigan State University.  The program and its source code have been placed in the public domain.  WinVN is not a product of MSU or any other institution.  }{
\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Serious development of WinVN began in September 1989.  It continued in fits and starts until roughly Fall 1992, when Sam Rushing (}{\f7 rushing@titan.ksc.nasa.gov}{\f4 )}{\f4 ,}{\f4  }{\f4 Jim Dumoulin }{\f4 (}{\f7 dumoulin@titan.ksc.nasa.gov}{\f4 
) }{\f4 and others took over development.  (I still contribute occasionally.)  In addition to adding many u}{\f4 seful features, Sam has also developed a Windows NT version.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 A Macintosh version was developed, but it is no longer in sync with the latest Windows version and is not being distributed (I think!).  The }{\f4 
release of a number of good Macintosh newsreaders convinced me long ago to cease development of the Mac version.  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 You can correspond with the authors of WinVN via the mailing list }{\f7 winvn@titan.ksc.nasa.gov}{\f4 .  }{\f4 It's best to send your remarks to this mailing list.  However, }{\f4 I can be reached at }{\f7 mrr@}{\f7 ripem}{\f7 .msu.edu}{\f4  or  }{
\f7 riordanmr@clvax1.cl.msu.edu}{\f5 .}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Mark R.   La}{\f4 nsing, Michigan    }{\f4 December}{\f4  1993}{\f4 
\par }}