{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}{\f5\fmodern Courier New;}{\f6\fswiss Helvetica;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;
\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \f3\fs16\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\f3\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title General philosophical topics}{\author Mark Riordan}{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy30\hr17\min21}{\version1}{\edmins194}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern16417}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \li180 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Usenet_Etiquette}}{\f4  }{
\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Usenet Etiquette}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Usenet Etiquette}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Usenet Etiquette}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 The ease of }{\f4\ul posting}{\v\f4 posting}{\f4  }{\f4\uldb Usenet News}{\v\f4 usenet_news}{\f4  }{\f4\ul articles}{\v\f4 article}{\f4  causes many inappropriate articles to be sent to the network.  An article can be inappropriate if it:}{\f4 

\par }{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-540\li720\tx360 {\f4 \tab }{\f4 --}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Is devoid of useful information or ideas.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 --}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Is sent to inappropriate }{\f4\ul newsgroup(s)}{\v\f4 newsgroup}{\f4 .}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 --}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Is really intended for a particular individual, rather than the entire }{\f4\ul Usenet}{\v\f4 usenet}{\f4  community.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 \tab }{\f4 --}{\f4 \tab }{\f4 Contains rude or insulting remarks.}{\f4 
\par }\pard \fi-540\li720 {\f4 
\par }\pard \li180 {\f4 Please compose your articles thoughtfully.  Consider sending an }{\f4\ul electronic mail message}{\v\f4 electronic_mail_message}{\f4  rather than posting an article, if appropriate.  }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Be aware of the fact that many sites must pay long-distance telephone charges to receive your article.  Also be aware of the fact that some of the popular newsgroups have tens of thousands of readers.  10,000 }{\f4 
people each reading your article for 20 seconds spend a total of 55 hours reading your article.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 See }{\f4\uldb Posting an Article}{\v\f4 posting_an_article}{\f4  and }{\f4\uldb Mailing a Message}{\v\f4 mailing_a_message}{\f4 .}{\f4 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} newsrc}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} The NEWSRC File}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} newsrc}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 The NEWSRC File}{\f4 
\par }\pard \li187 {\f4 
\par }{\f4 In order to keep track of your viewing history, WinVN records information about }{\f4\ul newsgroups}{\v\f4 newsgroup}{\f4 
 in a file named NEWSRC.  This file contains a list of all newsgroups.  For each newsgroup, WinVN records whether it is subscribed and which articles have been seen.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 Many Unix-based }{\f4\ul news readers}{\v\f4 news_reader}{\f4  record this information in a file named }{\b\f4 .newsrc}{\f4 .  WinVN uses }{\f4 a similar}{\f4  file format to provide compatibility with these programs.}{\f4 
  Some extensions had to be made to the file format to provide features not found in ordinary Unix newsreaders.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 See }{\f4\uldb Group Menu  Commands}{\v\f4 group_menu}{\v\f4 \-}{\v\f4 _commands}{\f4 .}{\f4 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Configuring_winvn}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 
\f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Configuring WinVN}}{\f4  }{\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Configuring WinVN}}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Configuring WinVN}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 WinVN offers a number of configuration options.  All are accessible from the }{\b\f4 Options}{\f4  menu of the }{\f4\uldb main window}{\v\f4 main_window}{\f4 .  The }{\b\f4 Configure Comm...}{\f4 
 option allows you to set communications parameters.  These parameters must be set properly for WinVN to work.}{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 The }{\b\f4 Configure Personal Info...}{\f4  and }{\b\f4 Configure Miscellaneous...}{\f4  options allow you to specify information about yourself and to set WinVN preferences.  This information is not vital to the proper operation of WinVN.}{\f4 

\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 By default, }{\f4 c}{\f4 onfig}{\f4 uration information is written to the file }{\f5 WINVN.INI}{\f6  in the }{\f6 current directory}{\f5 .}{\f4   }{\f4 The curious may wish to examine }{\f4 this file with a text editor.}{\f4   If th}{\f4 e }{\f5 
WINVN}{\f6  }{\f4 environment variable is defined, WinVN }{\f4 will use the value of this variable }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 See }{\f4\uldb Options Menu Commands}{\v\f4 options_menu_commands}{\f4 .}{\f4 \page }{\f4 
\par }{\f4 
\par }}