Mosaic Communications Corporation
Online BETA License Agreement

THIS IS A LEGAL AGREEMENT TO WHICH YOU ARE CONSENTING TO BE BOUND. IF YOU
DO NOT AGREE TO ALL OF THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE, DO NOT USE THE SOFTWARE.

 1.  Mosaic Communications Corporation ("MCom") grants to you a
non-exclusive, non-sublicensable, license to use version 0.9 beta of the
Mosaic Netscape network navigator (the "Software"), in binary executable
form for evaluation and trial use purposes only.

2.  MCOM MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS ABOUT THE SUITABILITY OF THIS SOFTWARE OR
ABOUT ANY CONTENT OR INFORMATION MADE ACCESSIBLE BY THE SOFTWARE, FOR ANY
PURPOSE.  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS' WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NONINFRINGEMENT. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED
GRATUITOUSLY AND, ACCORDINGLY, MCOM SHALL NOT BE LIABLE UNDER ANY THEORY
OR ANY DAMAGES SUFFERED BY YOU OR ANY USER OF THE SOFTWARE. MCOM WILL NOT
SUPPORT THIS SOFTWARE AND WILL NOT ISSUE UPDATES TO THIS SOFTWARE.

3.  All content accessed through the Software is the property of the
applicable content owner and may be protected by applicable copyright law.
This License gives you no rights to such content.

4. While MCom intends to distribute a commercial release of the Software,
MCom reserves the right at any time not to release a commercial release of
the Software or, if released, to alter prices, features, specifications,
capabilities, functions, licensing terms, release dates, general
availability or other characteristics of the commercial release.

5.  Title, ownership rights, and intellectual property rights in and to the
Software shall remain in MCom and/or its suppliers. You agree to abide by
the copyright law and all other applicable laws of the United States
including, but not limited to, export control laws. You acknowledge that
the Software in source code form remains a confidential trade secret of
MCom and/or its suppliers and therefore you agree not to modify the
Software or attempt to decipher, decompile, disassemble or reverse engineer
the Software, except to the extent applicable laws specifically prohibit
such restriction.

6.  MCom may terminate this License at any time by delivering notice to you
and you may terminate this License at any time by destroying or erasing
your copy of the Software.  Upon termination of this License, or in any
event within thirty (30) days following MCom's release of a commercial
version of the Software, you agree to destroy or erase the Software.  In
the event of termination, the following sections of this License will
survive: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.  This License is personal to you and you
agree not to assign your rights herein.  This License shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California and,
as to matters affecting copyrights, trademarks and patents, by U.S. federal
law. This License sets forth the entire agreement between you and MCom.

7.  Use, duplication or disclosure by the Government is subject to
restrictions set forth in subparagraphs (a) through (d) of the Commercial
Computer-Restricted Rights clause at FAR 52.227-19 when applicable, or in
subparagraph (c) (1) (ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer
Software clause at DFARS 252.227-7013, and in similar clauses in the NASA
FAR Supplement. Contractor/manufacturer is Mosaic Communications
Corporation, 650 Castro Street, Suite 500, Mountain View, CA 94041.

Mosaic Communications, the Mosaic Communications logo, Mosaic Netscape,
Mosaic Netsite and Mozilla are trademarks of Mosaic Communications
Corporation.

Copyright (c) 1994. Mosaic Communications Corporation. All rights reserved.
