.TH ENCRYPT 3 "Version 1.4" "Chalmers University"
.SH NAME
encrypt, setkey
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta \w'charxxx'u
.B #include <encrypt.h>
.br
.PP
.B void encrypt(block, edflag);
.br
.B char	block[64];
.br
.B int	edflag;
.PP
.B void setkey(key);
.br
.B char	*key;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.IR encrypt (3)
and
.IR setkey (3)
implements the encryption functions as described in X/Open Portability Guide
(December 1988). This implementation uses the DES encryption algorithm
for the actual encryption/decryption.
.PP
The input to both
.IR encrypt (3)
and
.IR setkey (3)
consists of an 64 character long array where each charater has the numerical
value of 1 or 0. One character corresponds to one bit in a DES 64-bit block,
where the first charcter (indexed as [0]) corresponds to the first bit in a
DES block.
.PP
.I encrypt
performes encryption/decryption on the contentse of the
.I block
argument. If
.I edflag
is 0,
.I block
is encrypted; otherwise,
.I block
is decrypted.
.PP
.I setkey
uses the argument
.I key
to generate an internal key schedule for use by
.IR encrypt .
The key is internally parity adjusted according to DES.
.SH BUGS
The
.I encrypt
function does not check if a key has been set or not since this was not
specified in X/Open Portability Guide (December 1988).
.SH AUTHOR
.ie t .ds O: \\kz\\h'+(\w'O'-\w'..')/2'\v'-0.8m'..\v'+0.8m'\\h'|\\nzu'O
.el .ds O: O
Stig \*(O:stholm <ostholm@ce.chalmers.se>
.br
Department of Computer Engineering
.br
Chalmers University of Technology
.SH RESTRICTIONS
This software may be freely distributed and modified, for non-commercial use,
without any restrictions from the author.
Additional restrictions due to national laws governing the use, import or
export of cryptographic software is the responsibility of the software user,
importer or exporter to follow.
