.\"#       @(#)COPYRIGHT   1.1a (NRL) 17 August 1995
.\"
.\"COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\"
.\"All of the documentation and software included in this software
.\"distribution from the US Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) are
.\"copyrighted by their respective developers.
.\"
.\"This software and documentation were developed at NRL by various
.\"people.  Those developers have each copyrighted the portions that they
.\"developed at NRL and have assigned All Rights for those portions to
.\"NRL.  Outside the USA, NRL also has copyright on the software
.\"developed at NRL. The affected files all contain specific copyright
.\"notices and those notices must be retained in any derived work.
.\"
.\"NRL LICENSE
.\"
.\"NRL grants permission for redistribution and use in source and binary
.\"forms, with or without modification, of the software and documentation
.\"created at NRL provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"   must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"
.\"        This product includes software developed at the Information
.\"        Technology Division, US Naval Research Laboratory.
.\"
.\"4. Neither the name of the NRL nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\"THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED BY NRL IS PROVIDED BY NRL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS
.\"IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\"TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
.\"PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL NRL OR
.\"CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
.\"EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\"PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\"PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\"LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\"NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\"SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation
.\"are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing
.\"official policies, either expressed or implied, of the US Naval
.\"Research Laboratory (NRL).
.\"
.Dd October 1, 1995
.Dt INET6 4
.Os NRL-IPv6
.Sh NAME
.Nm inet6
.Nd Internet protocol family (version 6)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <netinet6/in6.h>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Version 6 of the Internet Protocol (henceforth IPv6) is a new version of the
internet protocol with 16-byte addresses, and a number of other
enhancements.  Like with the Internet protocol family, there is a collection
of protocols layered atop the version 6 of the
.Em Internet  Protocol
.Pq Tn IPv6
transport layer, and utilizing the version 6 Internet address format.
The version 6 Internet family provides protocol support for the
.Dv SOCK_STREAM , SOCK_DGRAM ,
and
.Dv SOCK_RAW
socket types; the
.Dv SOCK_RAW
interface provides access to the
.Tn IPv6
protocol.
.Sh ADDRESSING
Version 6 Internet addresses are 16 byte quantities, stored in
network standard format.  The include file
.Aq Pa netinet6/in6_types.h
(which is included in
.Aq Pa netinet6/in6.h
) defines this address
as a structure.  The size of IPv6 addresses exceeds normal C data
types, so the structure elements may have to be manipulated.
.Pp
Sockets bound to version 6 of Internet protocol family utilize
the following addressing structure,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct sockaddr_in6 {
	u_char	sin6_len;
	u_char	sin6_family;
	u_short	sin6_port;
	u_long	sin6_flowinfo;
	struct	in_addr6 sin6_addr;
};
.Ed
.Pp
Sockets may be created with an all-zeroes local address to effect
.Dq wildcard
matching on incoming messages. 
The address in a
.Xr connect 2
or
.Xr sendto 2
call may be given as
.Dv INADDR_ANY
to mean
.Dq this host .
.Pp
Version 6 Internet sockets can communicate using the old version of IP by
specifying an address of the form
.Bd -literal -offset indent
::FFFF:<IPv4-address>
.Ed
This also means that sockets with all-zeros local addresses can accept
old-style IP data.
.Sh PROTOCOLS
The Internet protocol family is comprised of
the
.Tn IPv6
Internet protocol, Internet Control
Message Protocol (version 6)
.Pq Tn ICMPv6 ,
Transmission Control
Protocol
.Pq Tn TCP ,
and User Datagram Protocol
.Pq Tn UDP .
.Tn TCP
is used to support the
.Dv SOCK_STREAM
abstraction while
.Tn UDP
is used to support the
.Dv SOCK_DGRAM
abstraction.  A raw interface to
.Tn IPv6
is available
by creating an Internet socket of type
.Dv SOCK_RAW .
The
.Tn ICMPv6
message protocol is accessible from a raw socket.
.Pp
The 128-bit IPv6 address, from the point of view of the host, contains two
parts, a prefix, and a host part.  The length of the prefix can vary, and as
a consequence the host part varies as well.  This allows the addressing to
better fit network topology, and avoids the constraints of rigid address
classes.
.Pp
<More stuff about passing source routes (in addressing section),
v4-compatibility and transition, hints at security, and other things.>
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr socket 2 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr ipsec 4 ,
.Xr esp 4 ,
.Xr ah 4 ,
.Xr tcp 4 ,
.Xr udp 4 ,
.Xr ipv6 4 ,
.Xr icmpv6 4
.Rs
.%T "An Introductory 4.3 BSD Interprocess Communication Tutorial"
.%B PS1
.%N 7
.Re
.Rs
.%T "An Advanced 4.3 BSD Interprocess Communication Tutorial"
.%B PS1
.%N 8
.Re
.Sh CAVEAT
The Internet protocol support is subject to change as
the Internet protocols develop.  Users should not depend
on details of the current implementation, but rather
the services exported.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
protocol interface first appeared in NRL's
.Bx 4.4
IPv6 networking distribution.

The IPv6 extensions were written by Ran Atkinson, Dan McDonald, Craig Metz,
and Bao Phan of the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory.
