.\"#	@(#)COPYRIGHT	1.1a (NRL) 17 August 1995
.\"
.\"COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\"
.\"All of the documentation and software included in this software
.\"distribution from the US Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) are
.\"copyrighted by their respective developers.
.\"
.\"This software and documentation were developed at NRL by various
.\"people.  Those developers have each copyrighted the portions that they
.\"developed at NRL and have assigned All Rights for those portions to
.\"NRL.  Outside the USA, NRL also has copyright on the software
.\"developed at NRL. The affected files all contain specific copyright
.\"notices and those notices must be retained in any derived work.
.\"
.\"NRL LICENSE
.\"
.\"NRL grants permission for redistribution and use in source and binary
.\"forms, with or without modification, of the software and documentation
.\"created at NRL provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"   must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"
.\"	This product includes software developed at the Information
.\"	Technology Division, US Naval Research Laboratory.
.\"
.\"4. Neither the name of the NRL nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\"THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED BY NRL IS PROVIDED BY NRL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS
.\"IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\"TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
.\"PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL NRL OR
.\"CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
.\"EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\"PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\"PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\"LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\"NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\"SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation
.\"are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing
.\"official policies, either expressed or implied, of the US Naval
.\"Research Laboratory (NRL).
.\"
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------*/
.\"
.Dd October 1, 1995
.Dt IPSEC 4
.Os NRL-IPv6
.Sh NAME
.Nm ipsec
.Nd IP/IPv6-layer security
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <sys/socket.h>
.Fd #include <netinet6/in6.h>
.Fd #include <netinet6/ipsec.h>
.Ft int
.Fn setsockopt s SOL_SOCKET ipsec_type &ipsec_level sizeof(int)
.Ft int
.Fn getsockopt s SOL_SOCKET ipsec_type &ipsec_level &datalen
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The NRL IPv6 distribution includes IP/IPv6-layer security.  In conjunction
with the key management database implemented in
.Xr key 4 ,
.Nm
offers the user a way to protect their network transmissions.  The two
mechanisms used are the IP Authentication Header (see
.Xr ah 4 ),
and the IP Encapsulating Security Payload (see
.Xr esp 4 ).

To enable security on a socket, before any data is sent (usually, this is
right after the call to
.Xr socket 2 ),
.Xr setsockopt 2
is called as detailed above, with the integer variable
.Ar ipsec_type
set to one of:
.Bl -tag -width SO_SECURITY_ENCRYPTION_TRANSPORTxx
.It SO_SECURITY_AUTHENTICATION
Use the IP Authentication Header to ensure data authenticity.
.It SO_SECURITY_ENCRYPTION_TRANSPORT
Use the IP Encapsulating Security Payload to encrypt the
.Dq transport
portion of the data (e.g. the TCP header and TCP data).
.It SO_SECURITY_ENCRYPTION_NETWORK
Use the IP Encapsulating Security Payload to take an outbound IP or IPv6
datagram, encapsulate it inside another datagram of the same type, and
encrypt the entire contents of the inner datagram.  This allows options to
be encrypted as well.
.El

IP/IPv6-layer security in this implementation has 4 levels from which to
choose.  The security level actually used is the more paranoid between what
the user selects, and what the default system security level is set to.  The
four levels, placed in
.Ar ipsec_level ,
are:
.Bl -tag -width IPSEC_LEVEL_DEFAULTxx
.It IPSEC_LEVEL_DEFAULT
Send normal packets, and accept any packets bound for this socket.
.It IPSEC_LEVEL_USE
Use a security feature on outbound packets, but continue to accept any
packets for this socket.
.It IPSEC_LEVEL_REQUIRE
Use a security feature on outbound packets, and require that security
feature be present on inbound packets.  Inbound packets that do not have the
requested security feature are dropped silently.
.It IPSEC_LEVEL_UNIQUE
Like IPSEC_LEVEL_REQUIRE, but additionally, notify the key management
database that the key to be used for outbound packets using the security
feature must be unique to this socket.
.Sh ORDER OF PROCESSING
If multiple security features are requested by a socket, the order in which
they are performed on an outgoing packet are:  ESP-Transport,
Authentication, ESP-Network.  See
.Xr esp 4
for the difference between ESP-Transport and ESP-Network.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
In addition to errors that normally occur with
.Xr setsockopt 2 ,
programs that use
.Nm
may have the following happen as well.
.Bl -tag -width EADDRNOTAVAILxx
.It Bq Er EIPSEC
means that the system could not perform the requested security on outbound
or inbound packets.  This is a catch-all error meaning that
.Nm
failed inside the kernel.  Usually this is a result of key management not
being ready.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr getsockopt 2 ,
.Xr ah 4 ,
.Xr esp 4 ,
.Xr inet6 4 ,
.Xr key 4
.Rs
.%T Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol
.%B RFC 1825
.%D August, 1995
.Re
.Sh BUGS
Perhaps these options should not be set at SOL_SOCKET, rather, set at
IPPROTO_IP.

System security level is currently a kernel compile-time option.
Eventually,
.Xr sysctl 8
should be used to select an appropriate system security level.

Sockets using SO_SECURITY_ENCRYPTION_NETWORK will not work with levels
higher than IPSEC_LEVEL_USE.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
features first appeared in NRL's
.Bx 4.4
IPv6 networking distribution.

The IPv6 extensions were written by Ran Atkinson, Dan McDonald, Craig Metz,
and Bao Phan of the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory.
