.\"#	@(#)COPYRIGHT	1.1 (NRL) 17 January 1995
.\"
.\"COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\"
.\"All of the documentation and software included in this software
.\"distribution from the US Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) are
.\"copyrighted by their respective developers.
.\"
.\"Portions of the software are derived from the Net/2 and 4.4 Berkeley
.\"Software Distributions (BSD) of the University of California at
.\"Berkeley and those portions are copyright by The Regents of the
.\"University of California. All Rights Reserved.  The UC Berkeley
.\"Copyright and License agreement is binding on those portions of the
.\"software.  In all cases, the NRL developers have retained the original
.\"UC Berkeley copyright and license notices in the respective files in
.\"accordance with the UC Berkeley copyrights and license.
.\"
.\"Portions of this software and documentation were developed at NRL by
.\"various people.  Those developers have each copyrighted the portions
.\"that they developed at NRL and have assigned All Rights for those
.\"portions to NRL.  Outside the USA, NRL has copyright on some of the
.\"software developed at NRL. The affected files all contain specific
.\"copyright notices and those notices must be retained in any derived
.\"work.
.\"
.\"NRL LICENSE
.\"
.\"NRL grants permission for redistribution and use in source and binary
.\"forms, with or without modification, of the software and documentation
.\"created at NRL provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"1. All terms of the UC Berkeley copyright and license must be followed.
.\"2. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"3. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"4. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"   must display the following acknowledgements:
.\"
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\"
.\"	This product includes software developed at the Information
.\"	Technology Division, US Naval Research Laboratory.
.\"
.\"5. Neither the name of the NRL nor the names of its contributors
.\"   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"   without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\"THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED BY NRL IS PROVIDED BY NRL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS
.\"IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\"TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
.\"PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL NRL OR
.\"CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
.\"EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\"PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\"PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\"LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\"NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\"SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation
.\"are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing
.\"official policies, either expressed or implied, of the US Naval
.\"Research Laboratory (NRL).
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)netintro.4	8.2 (Berkeley) 11/30/93
.\"
.Dd October 1, 1995
.Dt NETINTRO 4
.Os NRL-IPv6
.Sh NAME
.Nm networking
.Nd introduction to networking facilities
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <sys/socket.h>
.Fd #include <net/route.h>
.Fd #include <net/if.h>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This section is a general introduction to the networking facilities
available in the system.
Documentation in this part of section
4 is broken up into three areas:
.Em protocol families
(domains),
.Em protocols ,
and
.Em network interfaces .
.Pp
All network protocols are associated with a specific
.Em protocol family .
(Although with the introduction of
.Xr inet6 4 ,
two protocols (
.Xr tcp 4
and
.Xr udp 4 )
can be associated with TWO families.)
A protocol family provides basic services to the protocol
implementation to allow it to function within a specific
network environment.  These services may include 
packet fragmentation and reassembly, routing, addressing, and 
basic transport.  A protocol family may support multiple
methods of addressing, though the current protocol implementations
do not.  A protocol family is normally comprised of a number
of protocols, one per
.Xr socket 2
type.  It is not required that a protocol family support
all socket types.  A protocol family may contain multiple
protocols supporting the same socket abstraction. 
.Pp
A protocol supports one of the socket abstractions detailed in
.Xr socket 2 .
A specific protocol may be accessed either by creating a
socket of the appropriate type and protocol family, or
by requesting the protocol explicitly when creating a socket.
Protocols normally accept only one type of address format,
usually determined by the addressing structure inherent in
the design of the protocol family/network architecture.
Certain semantics of the basic socket abstractions are
protocol specific.  All protocols are expected to support
the basic model for their particular socket type, but may,
in addition, provide non-standard facilities or extensions
to a mechanism.  For example, a protocol supporting the
.Dv SOCK_STREAM
abstraction may allow more than one byte of out-of-band
data to be transmitted per out-of-band message.
.Pp
A network interface is similar to a device interface.
Network interfaces comprise the lowest layer of the
networking subsystem, interacting with the actual transport
hardware.  An interface may support one or more protocol
families and/or address formats.
The SYNOPSIS section of each network interface
entry gives a sample specification
of the related drivers for use in providing
a system description to the
.Xr config 8
program.
The DIAGNOSTICS section lists messages which may appear on the console
and/or in the system error log,
.Pa /var/log/messages
(see
.Xr syslogd 8 ) ,
due to errors in device operation.
.Sh PROTOCOLS
The system currently supports the
Internet
protocols, including version 6 of the Internet Protocol (IPv6), the Xerox
Network Systems(tm) protocols,
and some of the
.Tn ISO OSI
protocols.
Raw socket interfaces are provided to the
.Tn IP
and
.Tn IPv6
protocol layer of the Internet, and to the
.Tn IDP
protocol of Xerox
.Tn NS .
Consult the appropriate manual pages in this section for more
information regarding the support for each protocol family.
.Sh ADDRESSING
Associated with each protocol family is an address
format.  All network address adhere to a general structure,
called a sockaddr, described below. However, each protocol
imposes finer and more specific structure, generally renaming
the variant, which is discussed in the protocol family manual
page alluded to above.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
    struct sockaddr {
	u_char	sa_len;
    	u_char	sa_family;
    	char	sa_data[14];
};
.Ed
.Pp
The field
.Ar sa_len
contains the total length of the of the structure,
which may exceed 16 bytes.
The following address values for
.Ar sa_family
are known to the system
(and additional formats are defined for possible future implementation):
.Bd -literal
#define    AF_UNIX      1    /* local to host (pipes, portals) */
#define    AF_INET      2    /* internetwork: UDP, TCP, etc. */
#define    AF_NS        6    /* Xerox NS protocols */
#define    AF_CCITT     10   /* CCITT protocols, X.25 etc */
#define    AF_HYLINK    15   /* NSC Hyperchannel */
#define    AF_ISO       18   /* ISO protocols */
#define    AF_INET6     24   /* {TCP,UDP}/IPv6. */
.Ed
.Sh ROUTING
.Tn UNIX
provides some packet routing facilities.
The kernel maintains a routing information database, which
is used in selecting the appropriate network interface when
transmitting packets.
.Pp
A user process (or possibly multiple co-operating processes)
maintains this database by sending messages over a special kind
of socket.
This supplants fixed size
.Xr ioctl 2
used in earlier releases.
.Pp
This facility is described in
.Xr route 4 .
.Sh SECURITY AND KEY MANAGEMENT
The kernel also maintains a database of keys used for various security
functions, espeically network security.  One or more user processes
maintains this database by sending messages over a special kind of socket,
much like routing processes do with the routing information database.
.Pp
This facility is described in
.Xr key 4 .
.Sh INTERFACES
Each network interface in a system corresponds to a
path through which messages may be sent and received.  A network
interface usually has a hardware device associated with it, though
certain interfaces such as the loopback interface,
.Xr lo 4 ,
do not.
.Pp
The following 
.Xr ioctl
calls may be used to manipulate network interfaces.
The
.Xr ioctl
is made on a socket (typically of type
.Dv SOCK_DGRAM )
in the desired domain.
Most of the requests supported in earlier releases 
take an
.Ar ifreq
structure as its parameter.  This structure has the form
.Bd -literal
struct	ifreq {
#define    IFNAMSIZ    16
    char    ifr_name[IFNAMSIZE];        /* if name, e.g. "en0" */
    union {
        struct    sockaddr ifru_addr;
        struct    sockaddr ifru_dstaddr;
        struct    sockaddr ifru_broadaddr;
        short     ifru_flags;
        int       ifru_metric;
        caddr_t   ifru_data;
    } ifr_ifru;
#define ifr_addr      ifr_ifru.ifru_addr    /* address */
#define ifr_dstaddr   ifr_ifru.ifru_dstaddr /* other end of p-to-p link */
#define ifr_broadaddr ifr_ifru.ifru_broadaddr /* broadcast address */
#define ifr_flags     ifr_ifru.ifru_flags   /* flags */
#define ifr_metric    ifr_ifru.ifru_metric  /* metric */
#define ifr_data      ifr_ifru.ifru_data    /* for use by interface */
};
.Ed
.Pp
Calls which are now deprecated are:
.Bl -tag -width SIOCGIFBRDADDR
.It Dv SIOCSIFADDR
Set interface address for protocol family.  Following the address
assignment, the ``initialization'' routine for
the interface is called.
.It Dv SIOCSIFDSTADDR
Set point to point address for protocol family and interface.
.It Dv SIOCSIFBRDADDR
Set broadcast address for protocol family and interface.
.El
.Pp
.Xr Ioctl
requests to obtain addresses and requests both to set and
retrieve other data are still fully supported
and use the
.Ar ifreq
structure:
.Bl -tag -width SIOCGIFBRDADDR
.It Dv SIOCGIFADDR
Get interface address for protocol family.  (NOTE:  This only obtains a
single address.  If the protocol family supports multiple addresses on an
interface, this ioctl will not obtain all of them.)
.It Dv SIOCGIFDSTADDR
Get point to point address for protocol family and interface.
.It Dv SIOCGIFBRDADDR
Get broadcast address for protocol family and interface.
.It Dv SIOCSIFFLAGS
Set interface flags field.  If the interface is marked down,
any processes currently routing packets through the interface
are notified;
some interfaces may be reset so that incoming packets are no longer received.
When marked up again, the interface is reinitialized.
.It Dv SIOCGIFFLAGS
Get interface flags.
.It Dv SIOCSIFMETRIC
Set interface routing metric.
The metric is used only by user-level routers.
.It Dv SIOCGIFMETRIC
Get interface metric.
.El
.Pp
There are two requests that make use of a new structure:
.Bl -tag -width SIOCGIFBRDADDR
.It Dv SIOCAIFADDR
An interface may have more than one address associated with it
in some protocols.  This request provides a means to
add additional addresses (or modify characteristics of the
primary address if the default address for the address family
is specified).  Rather than making separate calls to
set destination or broadcast addresses, or network masks
(now an integral feature of multiple protocols)
a separate structure is used to specify all three facets simultaneously
(see below).
One would use a slightly tailored version of this struct specific
to each family (replacing each sockaddr by one
of the family-specific type).
Where the sockaddr itself is larger than the
default size, one needs to modify the
.Xr ioctl
identifier itself to include the total size, as described in
.Xr ioctl .
.It Dv SIOCDIFADDR
This requests deletes the specified address from the list
associated with an interface.  It also uses the
.Ar if_aliasreq
structure to allow for the possibility of protocols allowing
multiple masks or destination addresses, and also adopts the
convention that specification of the default address means
to delete the first address for the interface belonging to
the address family in which the original socket was opened.
.It Dv SIOCGIFCONF
Get interface configuration list.  This request takes an
.Ar ifconf
structure (see below) as a value-result parameter.  The 
.Ar ifc_len
field should be initially set to the size of the buffer
pointed to by 
.Ar ifc_buf .
On return it will contain the length, in bytes, of the
configuration list.
.El
.Bd -literal
/*
* Structure used in SIOCAIFCONF request.
*/
struct ifaliasreq {
        char    ifra_name[IFNAMSIZ];   /* if name, e.g. "en0" */
        struct  sockaddr        ifra_addr;
        struct  sockaddr        ifra_broadaddr;
        struct  sockaddr        ifra_mask;
};
.Ed
.Pp
.Bd -literal
/*
* Structure used in SIOCGIFCONF request.
* Used to retrieve interface configuration
* for machine (useful for programs which
* must know all networks accessible).
*/
struct ifconf {
    int   ifc_len;		/* size of associated buffer */
    union {
        caddr_t    ifcu_buf;
        struct     ifreq *ifcu_req;
    } ifc_ifcu;
#define ifc_buf ifc_ifcu.ifcu_buf /* buffer address */
#define ifc_req ifc_ifcu.ifcu_req /* array of structures returned */
};
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr socket 2 ,
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr config 8 ,
.Xr routed 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm netintro
manual appeared in
.Bx 4.3 tahoe .
