.\" #	@(#)COPYRIGHT	1.1 (NRL) 17 January 1995
.\"
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\"
.\" All of the documentation and software included in this software
.\" distribution from the US Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) are
.\" copyrighted by their respective developers.
.\"
.\" Portions of the software are derived from the Net/2 and 4.4 Berkeley
.\" Software Distributions (BSD) of the University of California at
.\" Berkeley and those portions are copyright by The Regents of the
.\" University of California. All Rights Reserved.  The UC Berkeley
.\" Copyright and License agreement is binding on those portions of the
.\" software.  In all cases, the NRL developers have retained the original
.\" UC Berkeley copyright and license notices in the respective files in
.\" accordance with the UC Berkeley copyrights and license.
.\"
.\" Portions of this software and documentation were developed at NRL by
.\" various people.  Those developers have each copyrighted the portions
.\" that they developed at NRL and have assigned All Rights for those
.\" portions to NRL.  Outside the USA, NRL has copyright on some of the
.\" software developed at NRL. The affected files all contain specific
.\" copyright notices and those notices must be retained in any derived
.\" work.
.\"
.\" NRL LICENSE
.\"
.\" NRL grants permission for redistribution and use in source and binary
.\" forms, with or without modification, of the software and documentation
.\" created at NRL provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. All terms of the UC Berkeley copyright and license must be followed.
.\" 2. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 3. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgements:
.\"
.\" 	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\" 	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 	This product includes software developed at the Information
.\" 	Technology Division, US Naval Research Laboratory.
.\"
.\" 5. Neither the name of the NRL nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED BY NRL IS PROVIDED BY NRL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS
.\" IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL NRL OR
.\" CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
.\" EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation
.\" are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing
.\" official policies, either expressed or implied, of the US Naval
.\" Research Laboratory (NRL).
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)tcp.4	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/5/93
.\"
.Dd June 5, 1993
.Dt TCP 4
.Os NRL-IPv6
.Sh NAME
.Nm tcp
.Nd Internet Transmission Control Protocol
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <sys/socket.h>
.Fd #include <netinet/in.h>
.Fd - OR -
.Fd #include <netinet6/in6.h>
.Ft int
.Fn socket AF_INET SOCK_STREAM 0
.Pp
- OR -
.Ft int
.Fn socket AF_INET6 SOCK_STREAM 0
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Tn TCP
protocol provides reliable, flow-controlled, two-way
transmission of data.  It is a byte-stream protocol used to
support the
.Dv SOCK_STREAM
abstraction.  TCP uses the either the Internet, or version 6 internet
address format and, in addition, provides a per-host
collection of
.Dq port addresses .
Thus, each address is composed
of an Internet (or version 6 Internet) address specifying the host and
network, with a specific
.Tn TCP
port on the host identifying the peer entity.
.Pp
Sockets utilizing the tcp protocol are either
.Dq active
or
.Dq passive .
Active sockets initiate connections to passive
sockets.  By default
.Tn TCP
sockets are created active; to create a
passive socket the
.Xr listen 2
system call must be used
after binding the socket with the
.Xr bind 2
system call.  Only
passive sockets may use the 
.Xr accept 2
call to accept incoming connections.  Only active sockets may
use the
.Xr connect 2
call to initiate connections.
.Pp
Passive sockets may
.Dq underspecify
their location to match
incoming connection requests from multiple networks.  This
technique, termed
.Dq wildcard addressing ,
allows a single
server to provide service to clients on multiple networks.
To create a socket which listens on all networks, the Internet
address
.Dv INADDR_ANY
or the all-zeroes version 6 Internet address must be bound.  The
.Tn TCP
port may still be specified
at this time; if the port is not specified the system will assign one.
Once a connection has been established the socket's address is
fixed by the peer entity's location.   The address assigned the
socket is the address associated with the network interface
through which packets are being transmitted and received.  Normally
this address corresponds to the peer entity's network.
.Pp
.Tn TCP
supports one socket option which is set with
.Xr setsockopt 2
and tested with
.Xr getsockopt 2 .
Under most circumstances,
.Tn TCP
sends data when it is presented;
when outstanding data has not yet been acknowledged, it gathers
small amounts of output to be sent in a single packet once
an acknowledgement is received.
For a small number of clients, such as window systems
that send a stream of mouse events which receive no replies,
this packetization may cause significant delays.
Therefore,
.Tn TCP
provides a boolean option,
.Dv TCP_NODELAY
(from
.Aq Pa netinet/tcp.h ,
to defeat this algorithm.
The option level for the
.Xr setsockopt
call is the protocol number for
.Tn TCP ,
available from
.Xr getprotobyname 3 .
.Pp
Options at the
.Tn IP
or
.Tn IPv6
level may be used with
.Tn TCP ;
see
.Xr ip 4
or
.Xr ipv6 4 .
For TCP over IP, incoming connection requests that are source-routed are
noted, and the reverse source route is used in responding.  For TCP over
IPv6, source route semantics are currently undefined.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
A socket operation may fail with one of the following errors returned:
.Bl -tag -width [EADDRNOTAVAIL]
.It Bq Er EISCONN
when trying to establish a connection on a socket which
already has one;
.It Bq Er ENOBUFS
when the system runs out of memory for
an internal data structure;
.It Bq Er ETIMEDOUT
when a connection was dropped
due to excessive retransmissions;
.It Bq Er ECONNRESET
when the remote peer
forces the connection to be closed;
.It Bq Er ECONNREFUSED
when the remote
peer actively refuses connection establishment (usually because
no process is listening to the port);
.It Bq Er EADDRINUSE
when an attempt
is made to create a socket with a port which has already been
allocated;
.It Bq Er EADDRNOTAVAIL
when an attempt is made to create a 
socket with a network address for which no network interface
exists.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr getsockopt 2 ,
.Xr socket 2 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr inet 4 ,
.Xr inet6 4 ,
.Xr ip 4
.Xr ipv6 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
protocol stack first appeared in
.Bx 4.2 .
It was modified to run over IPv6 for the NRL
.Bx 4.4
IPv6 networking distribution.

The IPv6 extensions were written by Ran Atkinson, Dan McDonald, Craig Metz,
and Bao Phan of the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory.
