.\" #	@(#)COPYRIGHT	1.1 (NRL) 17 January 1995
.\"
.\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
.\"
.\" All of the documentation and software included in this software
.\" distribution from the US Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) are
.\" copyrighted by their respective developers.
.\"
.\" Portions of the software are derived from the Net/2 and 4.4 Berkeley
.\" Software Distributions (BSD) of the University of California at
.\" Berkeley and those portions are copyright by The Regents of the
.\" University of California. All Rights Reserved.  The UC Berkeley
.\" Copyright and License agreement is binding on those portions of the
.\" software.  In all cases, the NRL developers have retained the original
.\" UC Berkeley copyright and license notices in the respective files in
.\" accordance with the UC Berkeley copyrights and license.
.\"
.\" Portions of this software and documentation were developed at NRL by
.\" various people.  Those developers have each copyrighted the portions
.\" that they developed at NRL and have assigned All Rights for those
.\" portions to NRL.  Outside the USA, NRL has copyright on some of the
.\" software developed at NRL. The affected files all contain specific
.\" copyright notices and those notices must be retained in any derived
.\" work.
.\"
.\" NRL LICENSE
.\"
.\" NRL grants permission for redistribution and use in source and binary
.\" forms, with or without modification, of the software and documentation
.\" created at NRL provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. All terms of the UC Berkeley copyright and license must be followed.
.\" 2. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 3. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgements:
.\"
.\" 	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\" 	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 	This product includes software developed at the Information
.\" 	Technology Division, US Naval Research Laboratory.
.\"
.\" 5. Neither the name of the NRL nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED BY NRL IS PROVIDED BY NRL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS
.\" IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL NRL OR
.\" CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
.\" EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation
.\" are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing
.\" official policies, either expressed or implied, of the US Naval
.\" Research Laboratory (NRL).
.\"----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)udp.4	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/5/93
.\"
.Dd October 1, 1995
.Dt UDP 4
.Os NRL-IPv6
.Sh NAME
.Nm udp
.Nd Internet User Datagram Protocol
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <sys/socket.h>
.Fd #include <netinet/in.h>
.Fd - OR -
.Fd #include <netinet6/in6.h>
.Ft int
.Fn socket AF_INET SOCK_DGRAM 0
.Pp
- OR -
.Ft int
.Fn socket AF_INET6 SOCK_DGRAM 0
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Tn UDP
is a simple, unreliable datagram protocol which is used
to support the
.Dv SOCK_DGRAM
abstraction for the Internet and version 6 Internet
protocol families.
.Tn UDP
sockets are connectionless, and are
normally used with the
.Xr sendto
and
.Xr recvfrom
calls, though the
.Xr connect 2
call may also be used to fix the destination for future
packets (in which case the 
.Xr recv 2
or
.Xr read 2
and 
.Xr send 2
or
.Xr write 2
system calls may be used).
.Pp
.Tn UDP
address formats are identical to those used by
.Tn TCP .
In particular
.Tn UDP
provides a port identifier in addition
to the normal Internet or version 6 Internet address format.  Note that the
.Tn UDP
port
space is separate from the
.Tn TCP
port space (i.e. a
.Tn UDP
port
may not be
.Dq connected
to a
.Tn TCP
port).  In addition broadcast packets may be sent for Internet sockets
(assuming the underlying network supports this) by using a reserved
.Dq broadcast address ;
this address
is network interface dependent.  Multicast packets can be sent for both
Internet and version 6 Internet
.Tn UDP
sockets.
.Pp
Options at the
.Tn IP
or
.Tn IPv6
level may be used with
.Tn UDP ;
see
.Xr ip 4
or
.Xr ipv6 4 .
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
A socket operation may fail with one of the following errors returned:
.Bl -tag -width [EADDRNOTAVAIL]
.It Bq Er EISCONN
when trying to establish a connection on a socket which
already has one, or when trying to send a datagram with the destination
address specified and the socket is already connected;
.It Bq Er ENOTCONN
when trying to send a datagram, but
no destination address is specified, and the socket hasn't been
connected;
.It Bq Er ENOBUFS
when the system runs out of memory for
an internal data structure;
.It Bq Er EADDRINUSE
when an attempt
is made to create a socket with a port which has already been
allocated;
.It Bq Er EADDRNOTAVAIL
when an attempt is made to create a 
socket with a network address for which no network interface
exists.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr getsockopt 2 ,
.Xr recv 2 ,
.Xr send 2 ,
.Xr socket 2 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr inet 4 ,
.Xr inet6 4 ,
.Xr ip 4 ,
.Xr ipv6 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
protocol appeared in
.Bx 4.2 .
It was modified to run over IPv6 for the NRL
.Bx 4.4
IPv6 networking distribution.

The IPv6 extensions were written by Ran Atkinson, Dan McDonald, Craig Metz,
and Bao Phan of the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory.

