{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}{\f5\fmodern Pica;}{\f6\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f7\fmodern Courier;}
{\f8\fswiss Helvetica;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;
\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote text;}{\s246\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{\s247\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720\sb80\sl-240 
\i\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{\s250\li720\sb80\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\fi-245\li360\sb120\sa60\sl-240 
\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon253\snext251 heading 4;}{\s252\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \snext10 heading 1;}{
\s255\li360\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal Indent;}{\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-240\li600\sb60\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext2 Jli;}{\s3\li120\sb60\sl-240\keep\tx520\tx920\tx1320\tx1720\tx2120 
\f7\fs16\lang1033 \snext3 Ex;}{\s4\li120\sb160\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa1;}{\s5\fi-240\li360\sl-240\tx360 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb1;}{\s6\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240\tx360 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb2;}{\s7\li360\sb60\sl-240 
\f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lp1;}{\s8\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Th;}{\s9\li115\sb60\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Tp;}{\s10\li120\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 
\snext0 Normal 2;}{\s11\li120\sb120\sa120 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 bitmap;}{\s12\li120\sb120\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa2;}{\s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Jl;}{\s14\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 
\brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th2;}{\s15\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f6\fs16\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th3;}{\s16\li115\sb200\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext0 Normal 3;}{\s17\fi-1800\li1915\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1915 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext18 Thh;}{\s18\fi-1800\li1915\sb60\sl-240\tx1915 \f6\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext18 Tph;}{\s19\li180 \f2\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext19 Help;}{\s20\li180 \b\f2\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon19\snext20 Help Title;}{\s21\li180 \b\f2\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon20\snext21 Help Subtitle;}}{\info{\author Mark Riordan}
{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy29\hr20\min54}{\version1}{\edmins1372}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern16417}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj {\*\template C:\\WINWORD\\WHAT31.DOT}\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\fs16\up6 $}{\f4  Main Window}}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 
\f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\fs16\up6 #}{\f4  Main_window}}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Main Window}} Main Window
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 The main window, initially in the upper left corner of the screen, displays a list of {\ul newsgroups}{\v\uldb newsgroup}.  D
ouble-clicking on a newsgroup name causes WinVN to display a list of subjects of available {\ul articles}{\v\uldb article} in that newsgroup in a {\uldb group window}{\v group_window}. 
\par Clicking on a newsgroup name "selects" that newsgroup and displays it in reverse video (light on dark).  Selecting a newsgroup is useful only for subscribing to it; see {\uldb Subscribing to Newsgroups}{\v subscribing_to_newsgroups}
.  By default, subscribed groups appear in black; unsubscribed groups appear in blue.  See  
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 The first character of each newsgroup line in the main window gives information about that newsgroup:
\par \pard \fi-630\li720\sb80\sl-240 space\tab indicates either that WinVN has no information on the status of this group, or that no new articles have appeared in this group since your last WinVN session.
\par >\tab indicates that this newsgroup has been selected as the result of the previous Find operation.
\par *\tab indicates that new articles have appeared in this newsgroup since your last WinVN session.
\par \pard\plain \s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\uldb 
\par }\pard \s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240 {\uldb Network Menu Commands}{\v network_menu_commands}
\par {\uldb Group Menu Commands}{\v\uldb group_menu_commands }{\uldb  
\par }{\uldb Utili}{\uldb ties Menu Commands}{\v utilities_menu_commands}{\uldb 
\par }{\uldb Config Menu Commands}{\v\uldb config_menu_commands   }{\uldb 
\par }{\uldb Help Menu Commands}{\v\uldb help_menu_commands  }{\uldb 
\par }\pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Network Menu Commands}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {
\fs16\up6 #} network_menu_commands}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Network Menu Commands}} Network Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Connect to Server
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Starts a network connection between your workstation and your news server.  Use this command if you have the Connect at Startup option disabled under the Config Menu.  
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Disconnect from Server
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Terminates the network connection to your {\ul news server}{\v news_server} without exiting WinVN.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Mail Logout
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f8 Manually logs out of a network-based ma}{\f8 
il system (such as Microsoft Mail) without exiting WinVN.  This can save both local and network resources if you are sure you won't be needing to send mail for a while.  If you are logged out from your mail system and wish to forward an article via mail, 
}{\f8 WinVN will force another mail login if necessary.}
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Reset Server Protocol
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Resets WinVN's idea of the status of the session with the news server, aborting any outstanding requests.  This command is used to work around problems with WinVN, your news server, or your network.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Quit without Saving
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Terminates WinVN without updating the {\uldb NEWSRC}{\v newsrc} file.  When you use this option, WinVN's idea of which articles you have seen and to what groups you are {\ul subscribed}{\v subscribe_concept}
 will revert to the status at the beginning of the session.  In other words, WinVN will forget the activity in this session. 
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Exit
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\up6 Terminates WinVN, and writes of record of which articles you have seen, and to which you have }{\f4\ul subscribed}{\v\f4 subscribe_concept}{\up6  }to the NEWSRC file.{\up6 
\par }\pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 {\up6 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\fs16\up6 #}{\f4  Group_menu_commands}}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 
\f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\fs16\up6 $}{\f4  Group Menu Commands}}} Group Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Find...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Searches the {\uldb main window}{\v main_window} for a {\ul newsgroup}{\v\ul newsgroup}
 name that contains a specified text string.  Find brings up a dialog box into which you enter the string for which you want to search.  Click on OK to start the search, or Cancel if you decide not to search after all.
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 If a newsgroup is found which contains the specified string, the main window will be scrolled so that the newsgroup name is visible.  The selected newsgroup name will be marked with a ">".  If no such newsgroup c
an be found, WinVN says so via a dialog box.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Find Next
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Continues the search started by the previous Find... or Find Next.  The next newsgroup name containing the string, if any, is displayed.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Subscribe selected groups
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Subscribes to the currently-selected newsgroups.  See {\uldb Subscribing to Newsgroups}{\v subscribing_to_newsgroups}.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Unsubscribe selected groups
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Unsubscribes from the currently-selected newsgroups.  See  {\uldb Subscribing to Newsgroups}{\v subscribing_to_newsgroups}.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Move selected groups to Top
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Subscribes to the currently-selected newsgroups if they are not already subscribed, and moves them to the very top of the newsgroup list.   See {\uldb Subscribing to Newsgroups}{\v subscribing_to_newsgroups}
.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Deselect all
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Clears all newsgroups in the {\uldb main window}{\v main_window}, so that no newsgroups are currently selected.
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Utilities Menu Commands}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} utilities_menu_commands}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Utilities Menu Commands}} Utilities Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 New Article
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Creates a {\uldb Posting Window}{\v posting_window}, which you can use to begin creating a new article that is not a {\ul followup}{\v followup} to an existing article. 
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Compose Mail
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Allows you to send Electronic mail directly from within WinVN.  The type of mail system that WinVN will use will be determined by the setting of the Mail Transport option on the {\i 
Configure Communications menu.}
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Batch
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 Performs "close" or "send" operations on a group of open windows.  See }{\f4\uldb Batch Submenu Commands}{\v\f4 batch_submenu_commands}{\f4 .
\par }\pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Decode a File
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 Decode the contents of a binary file.
\par }\pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Encode a File
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Encode the contents of a binary file into a series of printable ASCII characters that can be transported over the network as a non-binary file.  The file can then be decoded by the recipientusing the {\i 
Decode a File }menu option.  The popular {\i uuencode} encoding scheme is used, so the recipient need not be a WinVN user.
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Batch Submenu Commands}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} batch_submenu_commands}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Batch submenu of Utility menu}} Batch Submenu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Close Articles
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Closes all open {\uldb Article windows}{\v article_window}.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Close Groups
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Closes all open {\uldb Group windows}{\v group_window}.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Close Status
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Closes all open Status windows.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Send Posts
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Sends all {\ul postings}{\v posting} in open {\uldb Posting windows}{\v posting_window}.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Send Mails
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Sends all {\ul electr}{\ul onic mail messages}{\v electronic_mail_message} in open {\uldb Mail windows}{\v mail_window}.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\f3\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Config Menu Commands}} {\f3\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {
\fs16\up6 #} config_menu_commands}} {\f3\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Config Menu Commands}} Config Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 The main window's Config menu allows you to configure much of the information WinVN uses.  There are several configuration menu commands:
\par \pard \li115\sb80\sl-240 {\uldb Configure Comm...}{\v configure_comm}
\par {\uldb Configure Personal Info...}{\v configure_personal_info}
\par \pard \qj\li115\sb80\sl-240 {\uldb Configure Miscellaneous...}{\v configure_miscellaneous}
\par {\uldb Configure Logging...}{\v configure_logging}
\par {\uldb Configure Signature File...}{\v Configure_signature_file}
\par {\uldb Configure Fonts}{\v configure_fonts}
\par {\uldb Configure}{\uldb  Color}{\v configure_color}
\par {\uldb Save Configuration}{\v save_configuration}
\par {\uldb Save Window Positions}{\v save_window_positions}
\par \pard \qj\li115\sb80\sl-240 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Comm...}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} Configure_comm}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Communications}} Configure Comm...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Brings up a dialog box allowing you to select communications/networking options.  
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 {\f4 WinVN is a WinSock based TCP/IP application.  You must have networking software loaded on your PC and a WinSock compliant Dynamic Link Library (DLL) in your Windows or Windo}{\f4 
ws System directory.   WinVN makes all calls to WinSock thru a generic network interface DLL called GENSOCK.DLL.   This interface has been developed to allow WinVN to also work with DLL's that predate the WinSock specification (such as the WSOCKETS.DLL us
}{\f4 ed in Microsoft Lanmanager 2.1a and DEC Pathworks 4.1) and also to allow experimentation with other non-sockets based networking transports.}{\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 NNTP (News)
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Fill in the Internet address of a {\ul news server}{\v news_server}.   Obtain this information from your system administrator.  
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 TCP port
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Fill in the TCP port designation of the news server program.  Typically this is "nntp".  In the case of some misconfigured TCP/IP software, you may need to type in the value 119
, which is almost always the port number used by news servers.  Other values can be used only if your local news server is so configured.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 SMTP (Mail) Server
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Fill in the Internet address of an SMTP mail server if you plan on using TCP/IP mail from within WinVN.  
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Username & Password
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Some {\ul NNTP}{\v nntp} news servers require you to provide an authorizing username and password before they will allow you full access to some or all {\ul newsgroups}{\v newsgroup}
.  If you plan on connecting with such a server, you should fill in the appropriate username and password for the server you have selected.  WinVN stores your password in encrypted form in winvn.ini{\v winvn.ini}.  However, be aware that the NNT
P AUTHINFO protocol used to authenticate you to the server is quite insecure, so your use of this option may be hazardous.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Mail Transport
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Select one of 4 options used to determine how WinVN will send mail.   The options are:
\par \pard \fi-1620\li1800\sb80\sl-240\tx450\tx1800 \tab Disable\tab Do not allow outbound mail.
\par \tab Use MAPI\tab Send mail via Microsoft's Mail Applications Protocol Interface (MAPI).  Use this option if you are using Microsoft Mail at your site.  
\par \tab Use SMTP\tab Send mail via the Internet Simple Mail Transport Protocol (SMTP) interface.  WinVN provides a simple SMTP mailer.\tab \tab 
\par \tab Auto Select\tab WinVN will attempt to locate MAPI and use it if available,  If MAPI is not available, it will default to SMTP.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Demand Logon
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 If you have the Demand Login option selected, WinVN will force a MAPI login "upon demand" (when mail is sent) instead of requiring a login instantly when WinVN is started.
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 See {\uldb Saving Configuration Information}{\v saving_configuration_information} and {\uldb Authorizing Yourself to the News Server}{\v\uldb authorizing_yourself_to_the_news_server}.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Personal Info...}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} configure_personal_info}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Personal Info}} Configure Personal Info...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 
Brings up a dialog box allowing you to specify personal information:  your name, electronic mail address, and organization name.  The organization name is typically the name of your employer or educational institution.  This information is used to constru
ct {\ul headers}{\v header} for {\ul articles}{\v article} and {\ul electroni}{\ul c mail messages}{\v electronic_mail_message} that you write.
\par See {\uldb Saving Configuration Information}{\v saving_configuration_information}. 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 \page ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Miscellaneous}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} configure_miscellaneous}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Miscellaneous}} Configure Miscellaneous
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Brings up a dialog box allowing you to specify miscellaneous preferences regarding the operation of WinVN.  Click on the appropriate portion of the figure below to bring up help on that option:
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 \{bml c:\\winvn\\doc\\cfgmisc.shg\}
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 See {\uldb Saving Configuration Information}{\v saving_configuration_information}.  
\par \page 
\par If {\i New window for each group} is checked, WinVN will attempt to create a new {\uldb group window}{\v group_window} for each {\ul newsgroup}{\v newsgroup} selected from the {\uldb main window}{\v main_window}
.  If this option is not checked, WinVN will reuse an existing group window to display newly-requested newsgroups.
\par If {\i New window for each article} is checked, WinVN will attempt to create a new {\uldb article window}{\v article_window} for each {\ul article}{\v article} selected from the {\uldb main window}{\v main_window}
.  If this option is not checked, WinVN will reuse an existing article window to display newly-requested articles.
\par Checking {\i Append saved articles} affects what WinVN does when you attempt to save the contents of an article to an existing file.  If this box is checked, WinVN will append the article to the file.  Otherwise, it will ask you what to do.  See {\uldb 
File Menu Commands}{\v file_menu_commands}. 
\par The {\i Check for new groups on startup} option determines whether WinVN queries the {\ul news server}{\v news_server} for newly-created {\ul newsgroups}{\v newsgroup}.  Checking for new newsgroups also allows WinVN to determine which groups h
ave received new articles since the last WinVN session.  The Yes and No options are self-explanatory; Ask means that WinVN will ask the user whether to check for new groups every time it starts up.  The Yes option is recommended for Ethernet-attached PCs.
  Checking for new groups can take a very long time on serially-attached PCs, though.
\par See {\uldb Saving Configuration Information}{\v saving_configuration_information}.  
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Check for new groups on startup}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_check}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Check for new groups on startup}}
 Check for new groups on startup
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 When WinVN connects to the news server, it can ask the se
rver for a status list of all the news groups.  This operation can be time-consuming if you have a slow connection.  However, it's useful to know how many new articles and groups there are.
\par \pard \li115\sb80\sl-240 You control whether WinVN requests this information from the server by choosing Yes, No, or Ask.  If you choose Ask, WinVN will always prompt you whenever it connects to the server.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} New window for each group}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_newgroup}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} New window for each group}} New window for each group
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 If {\b New window for each group} is checked, WinVN will attempt to create a new {\uldb group window}{\v group_window} for each {\ul newsgroup}{\v newsgroup} selected from the {\uldb main window}{\v 
main_window}.  If this option is not checked, WinVN will reuse an existing group window to display newly-requested newsgroups.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Connect at startup}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_connect}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Connect at startup}} Connect at startup
\par \pard\plain \s10\li120\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 If this box is checked, WinVN will try to connect to the news server whenever WinVN is launched.  There is rarely a reason to not check this option.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Confirm batch operations}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_batch}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Batch operations}} Confirm batch operations
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 If {\b Confirm batch operations }is checked, WinVN will prompt for confirmation before executing batch operations, such as bre
aking up a large binary file into multiple posts, encoding each one and posting them as separate articles.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Confirm save on exit}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_exit}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Save on exit}} Always confirm save on exit
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 If {\b Always confirm save on exit }is checked, WinVN will prompt the user to save the {\b winvn.ini }and {\b newsrc }
files upon exit.  If this options is disabled, WinVN will automatically save these files.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Confirm use of Reply-To}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_replyto}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Reply-To}} Confirm use of Reply-To
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 If {\b Confirm Use of Reply-To }is checked, WinVN will prompt you for confirmation anytime you reply to a post that has a From: address different t
han a Reply-To: address.   A number of large sites on the internet allow their people to send mail directly from computers inside their facility but don't allow responses to come back thru the same route.   Those sites typically will use the Reply-To fiel
d of a mail message to identify a proper return address.   However, other sites have broken mail software and checking this option will allow you to verify addresses.  You usually won't know what is a proper address so the typical procedure is to use the 
Reply-To field (if it exists), and if the email bounces, try the From: field.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Append saved articles}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_append}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Saving articles}} Append saved articles
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Checking {\b Append saved articles}
 affects what WinVN does when you attempt to save the contents of an article to an existing file.  If this box is checked, WinVN will append the article to the file.  Otherwise, it will ask you what to do.  See {\uldb File Menu Commands}{\v 
file_menu_commands}.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Full-name 'from' in group window}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_fullname}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} 'From' in group window}} Full-name 'from' in group window

\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 If {\b Full-name 'from' in group window }is checked, WinVN will display the name of the p
erson that posted an article instead of his/her E-mail address.   If WinVN can't find a persons "Full Name", it will use their E-mail address out of the news article's "From" field.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Show unsubscribed groups}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_showunsub}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Show unsubscribed groups}} Show unsubscribed groups
\par \pard\plain \s10\li120\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 If the {\b Show unsubscribed groups} option is checked, WinVN will display all groups on your News Server, even ones that are not currently subscribed.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Multi-Select in Group Window}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_multisel}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Group window selections}} Multi-Select in Group Window
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 The option {\b Multi-Select in Group Window }changes the behavior of the mouse when used to select multiple groups. 
   The default behavior of the mouse allows you to click on groups individually and that group will stay selected.   With Multi-Select enabled, a Mouse Left click on any group highlights that group and turns off all others.  After the first click, a Shift
 Mouse Left Click will highlight ALL intervening groups between the 1st click and your current mouse location.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Show full subject in threads}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_fullsub}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Subject in threads}} Show full subject in threads
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 If the {\b Show full subject in threads} is checked, WinVN will display the actual subject string of all articles
 in the thread.  Typically this is not meaningful since most articles in a particular thread all have the same subject.  However, sometimes someone changes the subject in the middle of a thread and selecting this option allows you to see these changes.

\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Compute threads}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_threads}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Threads}} Compute threads
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 If the {\b Compute Threads }options is checked, WinVN will request additional "references" data for each article in the displayed group.  You can then sort articles by threads.  
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Article Fetch Limit}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} cfgmisc_limit}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Article Fetch Limit}} Article Fetch Limit
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 WinVN fetches header infomation on articles when you view a newsgroup.  {\b Article Fetch Limit }determines how many article headers you are willing to have WinVN automatically fetch from the server
.  If the number of articles in a group exceeds this number, WinVN will prompt you with a dialog box before proceeding.  
\par \pard \li115\sb80\sl-240 This number defaults to 300, which is fine for a local area network connection but it may be too high for a lower speed serial SLIP connection.  
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page \page {\fs18\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Logging...}} {\fs18\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 
{\fs18\up6 #} configure_logging}} {\fs18\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Logging}} Configure Logging...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Brings up a dialog box allowing you to specify whether all outgoing posts or mail messages should be logged to a local text file.  If you enable these options, you must also specify the file names to which {
\ul postings}{\v posting} or {\ul electronic mail messages}{\v electronic_mail_message} should be written.  
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Signature File...}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} configure_signature_file}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Signature File}} Configure Signature File...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Brings up a dialog box allowing you to turn on an option to automatically append a {\uldb signature}{\v signature}
 to outgoing postings.  If you select this option, you must specify the name of the DOS text file containing the signature.  
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Fonts...}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} configure_fonts}} Configure Fonts{\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Fonts}} 
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Activates a submenu which allows you to select the fonts used for the various window types.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Color}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} configure_color}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Color}} Configure Color
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Activates a submenu which allows you to customize the foreground and background colors used by WinVN in each of its windows.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Save Configuration}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} save_configuration}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Save Configuration}} Save Configuration
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Immediately saves your WinVN configuration information to the {\uldb WINVN.INI}{\v WINVN.INI} file.  Normally, saving of WINVN.INI is done only upon exit from the program.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Save Window Positions}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} save_window_positions}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Save Window Positions}} Save Window Positions
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Records the postion of your different window types.  The next time WinVN runs, it will position newly-created windows of the same type in the same place on your screen.  
\par \pard \li115\sb80\sl-240 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Saving_configuration_information}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 
\f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Saving Configuration Information}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Saving Configuration Information}} Saving Configuration Information
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 When you exit WinVN via the {\uldb main window's}{\v main_window}
 Network/Exit menu command, you are given the option of saving the configuration options you have set during the session.  (The information is saved to {\uldb WINVN.INI}{\v WINVN.INI}
.)  If you haven't changed any configuration options during the session, it doesn't do any harm to save them anyway.  
\par If you change configuration options and want to save them immediately to guard against the computer crashing (yes, this has happened with WinVN!), use the {\uldb Save Configuration}{\v save_configuration} menu command of the main window.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\fs16\up6 #}{\f4  Help_Menu_commands}}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 
{\fs16\up6 $} Help Menu Commands}} Help Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Index 
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Starts the Help system with WinVN's main Help index.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 About...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Displays a dialog box containing WinVN credits.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Show Version
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Displays a dialog box containing WinVN version information.  Press Enter to dismiss this dialog box.
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 
\par }
