{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}{\f5\fmodern Pica;}{\f6\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f7\fmodern Courier;}
{\f8\fswiss Helvetica;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;
\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote text;}{\s246\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 9;}{\s247\li720\sb80\sl-240 \i\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 8;}{\s248\li720\sb80\sl-240 
\i\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 7;}{\s249\li720\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 6;}{\s250\li720\sb80\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 5;}{\s251\fi-245\li360\sb120\sa60\sl-240 
\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon253\snext251 heading 4;}{\s252\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \snext10 heading 1;}{
\s255\li360\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal Indent;}{\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-240\li600\sb60\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext2 Jli;}{\s3\li120\sb60\sl-240\keep\tx520\tx920\tx1320\tx1720\tx2120 
\f7\fs16\lang1033 \snext3 Ex;}{\s4\li120\sb160\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa1;}{\s5\fi-240\li360\sl-240\tx360 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb1;}{\s6\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240\tx360 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb2;}{\s7\li360\sb60\sl-240 
\f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lp1;}{\s8\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Th;}{\s9\li115\sb60\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Tp;}{\s10\li120\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 
\snext0 Normal 2;}{\s11\li120\sb120\sa120 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 bitmap;}{\s12\li120\sb120\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa2;}{\s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Jl;}{\s14\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 
\brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th2;}{\s15\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f6\fs16\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th3;}{\s16\li115\sb200\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext0 Normal 3;}{\s17\fi-1800\li1915\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1915 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext18 Thh;}{\s18\fi-1800\li1915\sb60\sl-240\tx1915 \f6\fs20\lang1033 
\sbasedon0\snext18 Tph;}{\s19\li180 \f2\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext19 Help;}{\s20\li180 \b\f2\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon19\snext20 Help Title;}{\s21\li180 \b\f2\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon20\snext21 Help Subtitle;}}{\info{\author Mark Riordan}
{\creatim\yr1991\mo6\dy29\hr20\min54}{\version1}{\edmins1227}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}{\nofchars65536}{\vern16417}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj {\*\template C:\\WINWORD\\WHAT31.DOT}\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\fs16\up6 $}{\f4  Main Window}}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 
\f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\fs16\up6 #}{\f4  Main_window}}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Main Window}} Main Window
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 The main window, initially in the upper left corner of the screen, displays a list of {\ul newsgroups}{\v\uldb newsgroup}
.  Double-clicking on a newsgroup name causes WinVN to display a list of subjects of available {\ul articles}{\v\uldb article} in that newsgroup in a {\uldb group window}{\v group_window}. 
\par Clicking on a newsgroup name "selects" that newsgroup and displays it in reverse video (light on dark).  Selecting a newsgroup is useful only for subscribing to it; see {\uldb Subscribing to Newsgroups}{\v subscribing_to_newsgroups}
.  By default, subscribed groups appear in black; unsubscribed groups appear in blue.  See  
\par The first character of each newsgroup line in the main window gives information about that newsgroup:
\par \pard \fi-630\li720\sb80\sl-240 space\tab indicates either that WinVN has no information on the status of this group, or that no new articles have appeared in this group since your last WinVN session.
\par >\tab indicates that this newsgroup has been selected as the result of the previous Find operation.
\par *\tab indicates that new articles have appeared in this newsgroup since your last WinVN session.
\par \pard\plain \s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\uldb 
\par }{\uldb Network Menu Commands}{\v network_menu_commands}
\par {\uldb Group Menu Commands}{\v\uldb group_menu_commands }{\uldb  }{\uldb 
\par }{\uldb Utilities Menu Commands}{\v utilities_menu_commands}{\uldb 
\par }{\uldb Config Menu Commands}{\v\uldb config_menu_commands   }{\uldb 
\par }{\uldb Help Menu Commands}{\v\uldb help_menu_commands  }{\uldb 
\par }\pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Network Menu Commands}} {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {
\fs16\up6 #} network_menu_commands}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Network Menu Commands}} Network Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Connect to Server
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Starts a network connection between your workstation and your news server.  Use this command if you have the Connect at Startup option disabled under the Config Menu.  
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Disconnect from Server
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Terminates the network connection to your {\ul news server}{\v news_server} without exiting WinVN.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Mail Logout
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f8 Manually logs out of a network-based ma}{\f8 
il system (such as Microsoft Mail) without exiting WinVN.  This can save both local and network resources if you are sure you won't be needing to send mail for a while.  If you are logged out from your mail system and wish to forward an article via mail, 
}{\f8 WinVN will force another mail login if necessary.}
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Reset Server Protocol
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Resets WinVN's idea of the status of the session with the news server, aborting any outstanding requests.  This command is used to work around problems with WinVN, your news server, or your network.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Quit without Saving
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Terminates WinVN without updating the {\uldb NEWSRC}{\v newsrc} file.  When you use this option, WinVN's idea of which articles you have seen and to what groups you are {\ul subscribed}{\v subscribe_concept}
 will revert to the status at the beginning of the session.  In other words, WinVN will forget the activity in this session. 
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Exit
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\up6 Terminates WinVN, and writes of record of which articles you have seen, and to which you have }{\f4\ul subscribed}{\v\f4 subscribe_concept}{\up6  }to the NEWSRC file.{\up6 
\par }\pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 {\up6 \page }{\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\fs16\up6 #}{\f4  Group_menu_}{\f4 commands}}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 
\f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\fs16\up6 $}{\f4  Group Menu Commands}}} Group Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li90\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Find...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Searches the {\uldb main window}{\v main_window} for a {\ul newsgroup}{\v\ul newsgroup}
 name that contains a specified text string.  Find brings up a dialog box into which you enter the string for which you want to search.  Click on OK to start the search, or Cancel if you decide not to search after all.
\par If a newsgroup is found which contains the specified string, the main window will be scrolled so that the newsgroup name is visible.  The selected newsgroup name will be marked with a ">".  If no such newsgroup can be found, WinVN says so via a dialog box
.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Find Next
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Continues the search started by the previous Find... or Find Next.  The next newsgroup name containing the string, if any, is displayed.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Subscribe selected groups
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Subscribes to the currently-selected newsgroups.  See {\uldb Subscribing to Newsgroup}{\uldb s}{\v subscribing_to_newsgroups}.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Unsubscribe selected groups
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Unsubscribes from the currently-selected newsgroups.  See  {\uldb Subscribing to Newsgroups}{\v subscribing_to_newsgroups}.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Move selected groups to Top
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Subscribes to the currently-selected newsgroups if they are not already subscribed, and moves them to the very top of the newsgroup list.   See {\uldb Subscribing to Newsgroups}{\v subscribing_to_newsgroups}
.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Deselect all
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Clears all newsgroups in the {\uldb main window}{\v main_window}, so that no newsgroups are currently selected.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Utilities Menu Commands}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} utilities_menu_commands}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Utilities Menu Commands}} Utilities Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 New Article
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Creates a {\uldb Posting Window}{\v posting_window}, which you can use to begin creating a new article that is not a {\ul followup}{\v followup} to an existing article. 
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Compose Mail
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Allows you to send Electronic mail directly from within WinVN.  The type of mail system that WinVN will use will be determined by the setting of the Mail Transport option on the {\i 
Configure Communications menu.}
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Batch
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 Performs "close" or "send" operations on a group of open windows.  See }{\f4\uldb Batch Submenu Commands}{\v\f4 batch_submenu_commands}{\f4 .}{\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Decode a File
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4 Decode the contents of a binary file.}{\f4 
\par }\pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Encode a File
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Encode the contents of a binary file into a series of printable ASCII characters that can be transported over the network as a non-binary file.  The file can then be decoded by the recipientusing the {\i 
Decode a File }menu option.  The popular {\i uuencode} encoding scheme is used, so the recipient need not be a WinVN user.
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Batch Submenu Commands}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} batch_submenu_commands}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Batch submenu of Utility menu}} Batch Submenu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Close Articles
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Closes all open {\uldb Article windows}{\v article_window}.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Close Groups
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Closes all open {\uldb Group windows}{\v group_window}.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Close Status
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Closes all open Status windows.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Send Posts
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Sends all {\ul postings}{\v posting} in open {\uldb Posting windows}{\v posting_window}.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Send Mails
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Sends all {\ul electronic mail messages}{\v electronic_mail_message} in open {\uldb Mail windows}{\v mail_window}.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\f3\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Config Menu Commands}} {\f3\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {
\fs16\up6 #} config_menu_commands}} {\f3\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Config Menu Commands}} Config Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 The main window's Config menu allows you to configure much of the information WinVN uses.  There are several configuration menu commands:
\par {\uldb Configure Comm...}{\v configure_comm}
\par {\uldb Configure Personal Info...}{\v configure_personal_info}
\par \pard \qj\li115\sb80\sl-240 {\uldb Configure Miscellaneous...}{\v configure_miscellaneous}
\par {\uldb Configure Logging...}{\v configure_logging}
\par {\uldb Configure Signature}{\uldb  File}{\uldb ...}{\v Configure_signature}{\v _file}
\par {\uldb Configure Fonts}{\v configure_fonts}
\par {\uldb Configure Color}{\v configure_color}
\par {\uldb Save Configuration}{\v sa}{\v ve_configuration}
\par {\uldb Save Window Position}{\uldb s}{\v save_window_position}{\v s}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Comm...}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} Configure_comm}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Communications}} Configure Comm...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Brings up a dialog box allowing you to select communications/networking options.  
\par An earlier version of WinVN allowed you to choose between TCP/IP and straight serial connections.  Unadulterated serial connections are no longer supported; you must be running some 
brand of TCP network driver on your PC in order to use WinVN.  The network driver must be loaded before you start WinVN.  WinVN supports network drivers that conform to the Winsock interface; this includes products from a number of companies, including FT
P Software, Inc.  A separate DEC Pathworks version of WinVN is available.
\par The Configure Comm... dialog box requires you to fill in the Internet address of a {\ul news server}{\v news_server}.   Obtain this information from your system administrator.  You must also fi
ll in the TCP port number of the news server program.  Typically this is 119; other values can be used if your local news server is so configured.
\par Fill in the Internet address of a mail server if you plan on using mail from within WinVN.  
\par Some {\ul NNTP}{\v nntp} news servers require you to provide an authorizing username and password before they will allow you full access to some or all {\ul newsgroups}{\v newsgroup}
.  If you plan on connecting with such a server, you should fill in the appropriate username and password for the server you have selected.
\par See {\uldb Saving Configuration Information}{\v saving_configuration_information} and {\uldb Authorizing Yourself to the News Server}{\v\uldb authorizing_yourself_to_the_news_server}.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Personal Info...}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} configure_personal_info}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Personal Info}} Configure Personal Info...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Brings up a dialog box allowing you to specify personal information:  your name, electronic mail address, and organiza
tion name.  The organization name is typically the name of your employer or educational institution.  This information is used to construct {\ul headers}{\v header} for {\ul articles}{\v article} and {\ul electronic mail messages}{\v 
electronic_mail_message} that you write.
\par See {\uldb Saving Configuration Information}{\v saving_configuration_information}. 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 \page }{\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Miscellaneous}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 
#{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} configure_miscellaneous}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Miscellaneous}}
 Configure Miscellaneous
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Brings up a dialog box allowing you to specify miscellaneous preferences regarding the operation of WinVN.
\par If {\i New window for each group} is checked, WinVN will attempt to create a new {\uldb group window}{\v group_window} for each {\ul newsgroup}{\v newsgroup} selected from the {\uldb main window}{\v main_window}
.  If this option is not checked, WinVN will reuse an existing group window to display newly-requested newsgroups.
\par If {\i New window for each article} is checked, WinVN will attempt to create a new {\uldb article window}{\v article_window} for each {\ul article}{\v article} selected from the {\uldb main window}{\v main_window}
.  If this option is not checked, WinVN will reuse an existing article window to display newly-requested articles.
\par Checking {\i Append saved articles} affects what WinVN does when you attempt to save the contents of an article to an existing file.  If this box is checked, WinVN will append the article to the file.  Otherwise, it will ask you what to do.  See {\uldb 
File Menu Commands}{\v file_menu_commands}. 
\par The {\i Check for new groups on startup} option determines whether WinVN queries the {\ul news server}{\v news_server} for newly-created {\ul newsgroups}{\v newsgroup}
.  Checking for new newsgroups also allows WinVN to determine which groups have received new articles since the last WinVN session.  The Yes and No options are self-explanatory; Ask means that WinVN will ask the user whether to check for new groups every 
time it starts up.  The Yes option is recommended for Ethernet-attached PCs.  Checking for new groups can take a very long time on serially-attached PCs, though.
\par See {\uldb Saving Configuration Information}{\v saving_configuration_information}.  
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Logging...}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} configure_logging}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Logging}} Configure Logging...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Brings up a dialog box allowing you to specify whether all outgoing posts or mail messages should be logged to a local text file.  If you enable these options, you must also specify the file names to which {
\ul postings}{\v posting} or {\ul electronic mail messages}{\v electronic_mail_message} should be written.  
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Signature File...}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} configure_signature_file}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Signature File}} Configure Signature File...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Brings up a dialog box allowing you to turn on an option to automatically append a {\uldb signature}{\v signature}
 to outgoing postings.  If you select this option, you must specify the name of the DOS text file containing the signature.  
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Fonts...}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} configure_fonts}} Configure Fonts{\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Fonts}} 
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Activates a submenu which allows you to select the fonts used for the various window types.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Configure Color}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} configure_color}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Configure Color}} Configure Color
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Activates a submenu which allows you to customize the foreground and background colors used by WinVN in each of its windows.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Save Configuration}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} save_configuration}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Save Configuration}} Save Configuration
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Immediately saves your WinVN configuration information to the {\uldb WINVN.INI}{\v WINVN.INI} file.  Normally, saving of WINVN.INI is done only upon exit from the program.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li115\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Save Window Positions}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} save_window_positions}} {\plain \f6\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} Save Window Positions}} Save Window Positions
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Records the postion of your different window types.  The next time WinVN runs, it will position newly-created windows of the same type in the same place on your screen.  
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Saving_configuration_information}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 
\f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Saving Configuration Information}} {\fs16\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Saving Configuration Information}} Saving Configuration Information
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 When you exit WinVN via the {\uldb main window's}{\v main_window} Network/Exit menu command, you are given the option of saving the configuration options you have set during the session.  (The informati
on is saved to {\uldb WINVN.INI}{\v WINVN.INI}.)  If you haven't changed any configuration options during the session, it doesn't do any harm to save them anyway.  
\par If you change configuration options and want to save them immediately to guard against the computer crashing (yes, this has happened with WinVN!), use the {\uldb Save Configuration}{\v save_configuration} menu command of the main window.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li90\sa120\sl-320 \b\f6\lang1033 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 {\f4\fs16\up6 #}{\f4  Help_Menu_commands}}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 
{\fs16\up6 $} Help Menu Commands}} Help Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Index 
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Starts the Help system with WinVN's main Help index.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 About...
\par \pard\plain \li90\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Displays a dialog box containing WinVN credits.
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033 Show Version
\par \pard\plain \li115\sb80\sl-240 \f6\fs20\lang1033 Displays a dialog box containing WinVN version information.
\par \pard \li90\sb80\sl-240 
\par }