.\"                                                                   
.\" Filename:      decrypt_seckey.3
.\" Description:   
.\" Author:        Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" Modified at:   Thu Jul 24 13:29:15 1997
.\" Modified by:   Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" 	
.\" 	Copyright (c) Univerity of Tromsø, Norway
.\" 	See the file COPYING for details
.\"                                                                   

.Dd May 17, 1997
.Dt DECRYPT_SECKEY 3
.Os PGPlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm decrypt_seckey
.Nd decrypt the secret fields in a secret key
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pgplib.h>
.Ft int
.Fn decrypt_seckey "PGPseckey_t *old" "u_char digest[16]" "PGPsecket_t *new"
.Ft void
.Fn clear_seckey "PGPseckey_t *key"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Before a secret key can be used, the secret fields must be decrypted.
They are protected by encryption, with a MD5 hash of the users'
password as key.
The key
.Fa old
is supposed to contain encrypted fields.
.Pp
All secrets can be wiped away by
.Fa clear_seckey .
.Pp
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon success 0 is returned.  If the key (or digest) is incorrect, 1 is
returned.  If an error occurs, -1 is returned.
The key pointed to by 
.Fa new
will contain the "armed" version of the key.
An armed key is distinguished from an unarmed one by having the
algorithm field set to 0 (zero).
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr seckey 3
.Xr md5
.Xr PGPlib 3
.Pp
.Sh WARNING
The key
.Fa new
contains Life, Universe and Everything.  Use it with care, and be sure
to call 
.Fa clear_seckey
at the earliest possible moment.
.Sh BUGS
The return codes should be more verbose (more of them).
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
Written by Tage Stabell-Kulø.  First appeared in PGPlib 0.1
