.\"                                                                   
.\" Filename:      flio.3
.\" Description:   
.\" Author:        Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" Modified at:   Fri Nov 14 15:31:57 1997
.\" Modified by:   Tage Stabell-Kuloe <tage@acm.org>
.\" 	
.\" 	Copyright (c) Univerity of Tromsø, Norway
.\" 	See the file COPYING for details
.\"                                                                   

.Dd May 17, 1997
.Dt FLIO 3
.Os PGPlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm flio
.Nd file-like i/o for stdio files and dynamic buffers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pgplib.h>
.Ft flio_t *
.Fn flio_fopen "const char *fname" "const char *mode"
.Ft flio_t *
.Fn flio_newbuff "void"
.Ft int
.Fn flio_getpos "flio_t *p" "flio_pos_t *pos"
.Ft int
.Fn flio_setpos "flio_t *p" "flio_pos_t *pos"
.Ft int
.Fn flio_getc "flio_t *p"
.Ft char *
.Fn flio_gets "char *b" "u_long s" "flio_t *p"
.Ft int
.Fn flio_putc "int c" "flio_t *p"
.Ft int
.Fn flio_puts "const char *s" "flio_t *p"
.Ft int
.Fn flio_write "void *ptr" "u_long s" "u_long n" "flio_t *p"
.Ft void
.Fn flio_close "flio_t *p"
\.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Routines that provides file-like i/o for stdio files and dynamic
buffers.
When 
.Fn flio_fopen
is used to initialize a "stream", all operation are passed to the
stdio library, while when 
.Fn flio_newbuff
is used, all operations are performed on buffers in memory.
\.
In general, all routines take argumenents and have semantics like
their stdio counterparts.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The routines
.Fn flio_fopen
and
.Fn flio_newbuff ,
if sucessful, returns a pointer to a newly allocated structure.  If an
error occurs, a NULL pointer is returned.

Upon sucess, the routines 
.Fn flio_getpos 
and
.Fn flio_setpos
both returns 0.  If an error occurs, -1 is returned.

Upon sucess,
.Fn flio_getc
will return the next character in the "stream" pointed to by the
argument while 
.Fn flio_putc
will write a character to the tream.
If an error occurs, both will return EOF and errno set to
indicate the reason.

The function 
.Fn flio_puts
will return 0 on sucess and EOF on failure.

The function 
.Fn flio_write
advance the file position indicator for the stream by the number of
bytes written. It returns the number of objects written.  If an error
occurs, or the end-of-file is reached, the return value is a short
object count (or zero).
\.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr errno 2
.Xr fgetc 3
.Xr fgetpos 3
.Xr fgets 3
.Xr fopen 3
.Xr fputc 3
.Xr fputs 3
.Xr free 3
.Xr fsetpos 3
.Xr fwrite 3
.Xr malloc 3
.Xr stdio 3
.Xr PGPlib 3
\.
.Sh BUGS
.\
.Sh HISTORY
Written by Thomas Roessler.  First appeared in PGPlib 0.3.
