.\"                                                                   
.\" Filename:      get_pubkey_rec.3
.\" Description:   
.\" Author:        Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" Modified at:   Sat Jan 24 18:45:51 1998
.\" Modified by:   Tage Stabell-Kuloe <tage@acm.org>
.\" 	
.\" 	Copyright (c) Univerity of Tromsø, Norway
.\" 	See the file COPYING for details
.\"                                                                   


.Dd May 17, 1997
.Dt GET_PUBKEY_REC 3
.Os PGPlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm get_pubkey_rec
.Nd get and store a public key with signatures
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pgplib.h>
.Ft int
.Fn get_pubkey_rec "PGPKEYID keyid" "int *len" "u_char **buf" 
.Ft int
.Fn store_pubkey_rec "PGPKEYID keyid" "repl_t replace" "u_char *buf" "int len"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The key with the identifier
.Fa keyid
is fetched (or stored) from (in) the database together with all
associated signatures and user identifications.  
When fetched, the result is placed in allocated memory and 
.Fa buf
is set to point to it.  The length of this memory is returned in
.Fa len ; 
the caller must free it when it is no longer used.
The buffer will contain standard PGP packets, with the public key
first.  These packages can be used to provide a public key directly.
When storing, the buffer
.Fa buf
must point to a memory region,
.Fa len
bytes long, containing PGP packets.  The first packet must be a public
key, followed by associated signatures and user identifications.
If the key is already present, the outcome depends on the value of
.Fa replace
which might be either
.Fa REPLACE
or
.Fa INSERT 
with the obvious meanings.
.Pp
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If no error occured, 0 is returned in both cases.  When fetching, 1 is
returned if the key was not
found.
When storing, if the key was present and 
.Fa INSERT
was specified, 1 is returned. 
Upon the encounter of an error, -1 is returned in both cases.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr free 3
.Xr keydb_init PGPlib
.Xr malloc 3 
.Xr store_pubkey_record PGPlib
.Sh STANDARDS
The packet in
.Fa buf
will, in the case of fetching, be compatible with RFC1991.
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
Written by Tage Stabell-Kulø.  First appeared in PGPlib 0.1
                                                                    
