.\"                                                                   
.\" Filename:      keydb_init.3
.\" Description:   
.\" Author:        Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" Modified at:   Sat Nov  8 18:36:25 1997
.\" Modified by:   Tage Stabell-Kuloe <tage@acm.org>
.\" (C) 1997 Tage Stabell-Kulø, all rights reserved.
.\"                                                                   

.Dd May 14, 1997
.Dt KEYDB_INIT 3
.Os PGPlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm keydb_init
.Nd initialize a database of public keys 
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pgplib.h>
.Ft int
.Fn keydb_init "char *name"  "openmode_t mode"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The string 
.Fa name
is used to construct five filenames:
.Fa name.hash name.key name.string name.revstring 
and
.Fa name.keyid , 
each of which will be used to hold a database.  The contents of these
databases are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width name.revstring
.It Fa name.hash
This database holds hashes of the keys with sigantures in order to
rapid verify whether a key record has changed.
.It Fa name.key
This database contains the public keys which can be accessed through
the other databases.  The data indexed by the key is a set of PGP
packets containing first the public key, then UserID packets and
certificates.
.It Fa name.keyid
PGP prints only 32 bit of the real KeyID's when it presents keys.
This database is used to quickly find the real KeyID from a short one.
.It Fa name.revstring
Indexed by the UserID is the KeyID held as data.  This database is
used to find the KeyID(s) matching a string which in it self is not a
full UserID.
.It Fa name.string
Every userid associated with a public key is stored in this database.
That is, indexed by the KeyID is a set of UserID's.
.El
.Pp
The parameter 
.Fa mode
can be set to one of the following:
.Bl -tag -width NOMODE
.It Fa READER
The database is opened
.It Fa WRITER
The database is opened for writing
.It Fa NEWD
A new database is created, regardless of whether one existed.
.El
.Pp
The semantics of these modes is given by the underlying database.
.\.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If the databases could be opened (in the desired mode), 0 is
returned.  If not, -1 is returned.
.\.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dbopen 3
.Xr access 2
.Xr keydb_end PGPlib
.Xr store_pubkey PGPlib
.Xr store_pubkey_rec PGPlib
.Xr store_uid PGPlib
.\.
.Sh HISTORY
Written by Tage Stabell-Kulø and Thomas Roessler.  First appeared in
PGPlib 0.1 
.\.
.Sh BUGS
The number of possible errors are far greater than the number of
return codes we want this function to have.  It is left to the user to
figure out why things went wrong.
                                                                    
