.\"                                                                   
.\" Filename:      literal.3
.\" Description:   
.\" Author:        Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" Modified at:   Sat Nov  8 18:41:48 1997
.\" Modified by:   Tage Stabell-Kuloe <tage@acm.org>
.\" 	
.\" 	Copyright (c) Univerity of Tromsø, Norway
.\" 	See the file COPYING for details
.\"                                                                   


.Dd May 17, 1997
.Dt LITERAL 3
.Os PGPlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm literal
.Nd routines to manipulate a literal packet
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pgplib.h>
.Ft int
.Fn file2literal "FILE *fd" "PGPliteral_t *literal"
.Ft int
.Fn buf2literal "u_char *buf" "int len" "PGPliteral_t *literal"
.Ft int
.Fn literal2buf "PGPliteral_t *literal" "u_char **buf"
.Ft int
.Fn create_literal "char *filename" "PGPliteral_t *literal"
.Ft void
.Fn free_literal "PGPliteral_t *literal"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The routine
.Fn create_literal
will fill a literal struct with all relevan information.  Source is a
file, given by its name.
The other routines manipulate such structures.
.Fn free_literal
does not free the structure itself, only the data held by the
structure.
The size of the buffer returned by 
.Fn literal2buf
can be obtained by calling
.Fn packet_length .
.Pp
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon success, all routines return 0.  If an error occurs (such as lack
of memory) -1 is returned.
All routnes will return 1 if there is a synax error in the input (or a
file could not be read, or quite a few other problems).
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr free 3
.Xr malloc 3
.Xr packet_length PGPlib
.Xr PGPlib 3
.Pp
.Sh STANDARDS
The packets that are read and written are compatible with RFC1991.
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
Written by Tage Stabell-Kulø.  First appeared in PGPlib 0.1
