.\"                                                                   
.\" Filename:      packet.3
.\" Description:   
.\" Author:        Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" Modified at:   Wed Jul 30 09:45:00 1997
.\" Modified by:   Tage Stabell-Kulo <tage@acm.org>
.\" 	
.\" 	Copyright (c) Univerity of Tromsø, Norway
.\" 	See the file COPYING for details
.\"                                                                   

.Dd May 17, 1997
.Dt PACKET 3
.Os PGPlib
.Sh NAME
.Nm packet
.Nd manipulate raw PGP packets
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <pgplib.h>
.Ft int
.Fn read_packet "FILE *fd" "u_char **packet"
.Ft int
.Fn find_packet_in_buffer "u_char buf" "int buflen" "u_char **packet"
.Ft int
.Fn packet_length "u_char *buf"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The routines
.Fn read_packet
and
.Fn find_packet_in_buffer
lets you read a packet from a file or a buffer, respectively.  The
memory used to hold the result is obtained by means of malloc and
should be freed when no longer needed.

.Fn packet_length 
finds the real length of a PGP packet and can be used to find the
size of the packets returned by the other two routines.
.Fa buf
must point to the CTB and 1, 2 or 4 consecutive bytes are accessed to
find the length.
.Pp
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The first two routines return 0 if a packet was found and sucessfully
copied into the buffer.  If no packet was found, the buffer is
compressed, or an error occured, -1 is returned.
.Fa pgplib_errno
is set to indicate the cause.
.Fn packet_length
returns the length of the packet, including header.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr malloc 3
.Xr free 3
.Xr PGPlib 3
.Pp
.Sh BUGS
If you call this routines with random data, they will take revenge
without delay.  This is particulary true for 
.Fn packet_length .
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
Written by Tage Stabell-Kulø.  First appeared in PGPlib 0.1
