
README file for PGP International Freeware, Version 5.0
-------------------------------------------------------


OVERVIEW
========

Welcome to this international freeware release of PGP 5.0, commonly
referred to as PGP 5.0i.  This archive contains everything you need
to build PGP 5.0i on a Unix platform.

The source code contained in this archive is based on material
published in the following books by PGP, Inc.:

 1) Pretty Good Privacy (tm) 5.0
    Platform Independent Source Code
    June 14, 1997
    ISBN 0-9649654-5-3

 2) Pretty Good Privacy (tm) 5.0
    Platform Independent Source Code, 2nd edition
    July 9, 1997 
    ISBN 0-9649654-8-8

 3) Pretty Good Privacy (tm) 5.0
    Unix Specific Source Code, 2nd edition
    July 16, 1997
    ISBN 1-891064-01-0

 4) Pretty Good Privacy (tm) 5.0
    Unix Specific Source Code Update
    December 1, 1997
    ISBN 1-891064-06-1

The books were exported from the USA in accordance with the US Export
Regulations, and the pages were then scanned and OCRed to make the
source available in electronic form.

More than 60 people from all over Europe worked for over 900 hours to
make this release possible.  We are pleased to be able to present a
PGP version that is 100% legal to use outside the USA, because no
source code was exported in electronic form.

NB! This is copyrighted software.  Please read the LICENSE file
before you start using PGP 5.0i.


DIFFERENCES BETWEEN US AND INTERNATIONAL VERSION
================================================

The following changes have been made to the source code after it has
been scanned in order to produce this version of PGP:

  1. The version number has been suffixed with an 'i' (for
     'international')
  2. The default keyserver has been changed from pgpkeys.mit.edu
     to horowitz.surfnet.nl
  3. The man pages have been updated with the URL to the PGPi home
     page
  4. This README file has been added to the file archive


DOCUMENTATION
=============

This distribution contains a few, brief man pages that explains the
most common PGP commands and functions.  They assume that the user
is already somewhat familiar with PGP and public key encryption
concepts in general.  For a more detailed discussion on PGP 5.0
usage, including a copy of the PGP User's Manual and answers to FAQs,
please visit the International PGP Home Page, available online at:

  http://www.pgpi.com/


INSTALLATION
============

Installation instructions can be found in the file src/README.


TECHNICAL DETAILS
=================

The pages were scanned using HP ScanJet 4+ and Agfa StudioScan IIsi
flatbed scanners and OmniPage Pro 7.0 OCR software.

The printed books contained line and page checksums to help
validating the accuracy of the scanned code.  After the pages were
scanned, they were proof-read and any errors corrected until the
checksums agreed.  Because of this, you can be quite sure that no
errors have been introduced into the files on their way from paper
to electronic form, and that the files in this archive are
(practically) identical to the original files, as published by PGP,
Inc.

The source code books also contained a list of MD5 and SHA hashes for
all the files, to make it easier to validate each file.  However,
because the checksum algorithm used in the first edition of the
source code books (from which most of the files have been scanned)
does not take whitespace into consideration, we have not always been
able to reproduce files that are 100% identical to the originals.
They differ only in that they contain too many or too few spaces or
TABs (which are irrelevant to the compiler anyway); apart from that
they are identical to the originals.  Sadly, the MD5 and SHA hashes
are sensitive to whitespace, so only a few of the files in this
archive produce the same hashes as the originals. :-(


CREDITS
=======

This project could not have been accomplished without the help of a
large number of people, who devoted a greater or lesser amount of
their valuable spare-time in order to make PGP 5.0 freely available
to the world.  Their help have been much appreciated, whether they
have been operating the scanners, proof-read the source code, helped
organizing or contributed in some other way.

We would like to thank Peter Aandahl (se), Frederik Andersen (dk),
Ronny Arild (no), Anders Arnholm (se), Sigmund Austigard (no), Harald
Böhme (de), Piete Brooks (uk), Sico Bruins (nl), Børge Brunes (no),
Michail Brzitwa (de), Ingmar Camphausen (de), Luis Colorado (es),
Carlo Dapor (ch), Martin Dickopp (de), Håvard Eidnes (no), Patrick
Feisthammel (ch), Michael Fischer v. Mollard (de), Wolfgang Formann
(de), Otto Forster (de), Jens Frank (de), Bjørn Frantzen (no), Mark
Grant (uk), Kari Granö (fi), Jani Hakala (fi), Kolbjørn Halvorsen
(no), Florian Helmberger (at), Jeremy Henty (uk), Luis Hernandez
(uk), Alex Le Heux (nl), Hans Hübner (de), Petteri Jantti (uk), Bo
Johansson (se) Arne H. Juul (no), Stephen Kapp (uk), Anja
Kristoffersen (no), Delman Lee (uk), Paul Leyland (uk), Klaus
Lichtenwalder (de), Sten Lindgren (se), David Lucas (uk), Ernst
Molitor (de), Karin Nijssen (nl), Dag Øien (no), Jürgen Peus (de),
Jens von Pilgrim (de), Johan Riise (no), Naresh Sharma (nl), Klaus
Singvogel (de), Øyvind Solheim (no), Frank Stajano (uk), Alexander
Stellwag (de), Pierre Suter (de), Maartje Toorenaar (nl), Helge René
Urholm (no), Jan Viljanen (se), Andreas Wespe (de), Reto A. Wiget
(ch) and Ulrikke Ytteborg (no) for their invaluable help.

Special thanks go to the Norwegian National Library for scanning part
of the source code, UNINETT (the Norwegian Academic Network) for
funding, and to all the attendants at HIP '97 for being so patient
and for providing last-minute proof-reading help.

It's been a lot of work organizing this thing, but it's been a lot of
fun, too.  Whether you are an experienced PGP user or completely new
to PGP, we hope that you will enjoy this new version, and that you
will think it was worth all the effort we put into it.


Happy encrypting,


Teun Nijssen <teun@kub.nl>
Stale Schumacher <stale@schumacher.no>

