.\" Copyright (C) 1997  Richard Gooch
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.

.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Richard Gooch may be reached by email at  rgooch@atnf.csiro.au
.\" The postal address is:
.\"   Richard Gooch, c/o ATNF, P. O. Box 76, Epping, N.S.W., 2121, Australia.
.\"
.\"	extract-addrs.1		Richard Gooch	27-SEP-1997
.\"
.TH EXTRACT-ADDRS 1 "27 Sep 1997" "PGPsendmail/Unix Suite"
.SH NAME
extract-addrs \- extract email addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extract-addrs
[
.B t
]
[
.B c
]
[
.B b
]
[
.B f
]
[
.B s
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIextract-addrs\fP programme will extract email addresses from an
email header. The header is read from the standard input. Each email
address extracted is written to the standard output, each in a
separate line. This programme can be used as the basis for an advanced
email-address matching system for mail filters.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B t
Extract email addresses from the "To:" field.
.TP
.B c
Extract email addresses from the "Cc:" field.
.TP
.B b
Extract email addresses from the "Bcc:" field.
.TP
.B f
Extract email addresses from the "From:" and "From\ " fields.
.TP
.B s
Extract email addresses from the "Sender:" field.
.SH DEFAULT BEHAVIOUR
If no options are given, the default "fs" options are used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pgpsendmail (1),
.BR match-email-addr (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Richard Gooch (rgooch@atnf.csiro.au)
.SH AVAILABILITY
The PGPsendmail/Unix Suite is available for anonymous ftp from:

ftp.atnf.csiro.au:pub/people/rgooch
ftp.dhp.com:pub/crypto/pgp/PGPsendmail
ftp.ox.ac.uk:pub/crypto/pgp/utils
linux.nrao.edu:pub/src/pgp/PGPsendmail
