.\" Copyright (C) 1997  Richard Gooch
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.

.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Richard Gooch may be reached by email at  rgooch@atnf.csiro.au
.\" The postal address is:
.\"   Richard Gooch, c/o ATNF, P. O. Box 76, Epping, N.S.W., 2121, Australia.
.\"
.\"	match-email-addr.1		Richard Gooch	28-SEP-1997
.\"
.TH MATCH-EMAIL-ADDR 1 "28 Sep 1997" "PGPsendmail/Unix Suite"
.SH NAME
match-email-addr \- match email addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B match-email-addr
.B files...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fImatch-email-addr\fP programme will match email addresses passed
in the standard input to words and regular expressions in a list of
files. This programme can be used as the basis for an advanced
email-address matching system for mail filters. The standard input
must contain one or more email addresses separated by newlines.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B files...
The files to read, searching for a match.
.SH FILE FORMAT
Each line must contain a single word to match with an email
address. Leading and trailing spaces must not exist. The following
special lines are recognised:
.TP
.B #
A comment line is denoted by a '#' character at the beginning of the
line.
.TP
.B !include file
Specifies a new \fIfile\fP to read, searching for matches.
.TP
.B !regexp expression
Specifies a regular \fIexpression\fP to match.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Normally, exit status is 0 if matches were found, and 1 if no matches
were found.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pgpsendmail (1),
.BR extract-addrs (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Richard Gooch (rgooch@atnf.csiro.au)
.SH AVAILABILITY
The PGPsendmail/Unix Suite is available for anonymous ftp from:

ftp.atnf.csiro.au:pub/people/rgooch
ftp.dhp.com:pub/crypto/pgp/PGPsendmail
ftp.ox.ac.uk:pub/crypto/pgp/utils
linux.nrao.edu:pub/src/pgp/PGPsendmail
