.\" Copyright (C) 1994-1997  Richard Gooch
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.

.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Richard Gooch may be reached by email at  rgooch@atnf.csiro.au
.\" The postal address is:
.\"   Richard Gooch, c/o ATNF, P. O. Box 76, Epping, N.S.W., 2121, Australia.
.\"
.\"	pgppipe.1		Richard Gooch	1-OCT-1997
.\"
.TH PGPPIPE 1 "1 Oct 1997" "PGPsendmail/Unix Suite"
.SH NAME
pgppipe \- decrypt PGP messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pgppipe
[
.B -binary
]
[
.B -force
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIpgppipe\fP programme will decrypt ASCII armour PGP messages,
without the need for a passphrase. It uses PGPdaemon to actually
perform the decryption. \fIpgppipe\fP is simply a front-end to
PGPdaemon. PGPdaemon is part of the PGPsendmail/Unix Suite.
\fIpgppipe\fP will read the standard input for the encrypted message
and will write the decrypted message to the standard output.
\fIpgppipe\fP is able to cope with multiple encrypted messages within
the input.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-binary
Decrypt a binary PGP file. The entire input file must be a PGP
message: multiple PGP messages are not supported. The default is to
decrypt ASCII armour files, which does support multiple PGP messages.
.TP
.B \-force
If there any errors with decrypting, force \fIpgppipe\fP to keep going
by simply copying the remaining data to the standard output and return
success. This can lose data, since a certain quantity of data may
have been written to PGPdaemon before an error was detected. The
default is to return a failure code upon error (this is much better
for mail filters).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Normally, exit status is 0 if no errors were detected, otherwise some
other error code is returned.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.BI $PGPPATH/secring.pgp
the users' secret keyring file
.TP
.BI pgpsendmail/doc/README.PGPdaemon
distribution README (has more info.)
.PD
.SH BUGS
\fIpgppipe\fP does not cope with improperly terminated PGP message
blocks. Any data after an unterminated message block is lost.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR pgp (1),
.BR pgpsendmail (1),
.BR pgpdaemon (1),
.BR sendpgppass (1),
.BR pgpsign(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Richard Gooch (rgooch@atnf.csiro.au)
.SH AVAILABILITY
The PGPsendmail/Unix Suite is available for anonymous ftp from:

ftp.atnf.csiro.au:pub/people/rgooch
ftp.dhp.com:pub/crypto/pgp/PGPsendmail
ftp.ox.ac.uk:pub/crypto/pgp/utils
linux.nrao.edu:pub/src/pgp/PGPsendmail
