.\" Copyright (C) 1994  Richard Gooch
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.

.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Richard Gooch may be reached by email at  rgooch@atnf.csiro.au
.\" The postal address is:
.\"   Richard Gooch, c/o ATNF, P. O. Box 76, Epping, N.S.W., 2121, Australia.
.\"
.\"	sendpgpass.8		Richard Gooch	8-DEC-1994
.\"
.TH SENDPGPPASS 1 "8 Dec 1994" "PGPsendmail/Unix Suite"
.SH NAME
sendpgppass \- send PGP passphrase to PGPdaemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sendpgppass
[
.B -wipe
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIsendpgppass\fP programme will query the user for their PGP
passphrase and will transmit that and the users' secret keyring to
PGPdaemon. PGPdaemon is part of the PGPsendmail/Unix Suite.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-wipe
This option will cause the secret keyring file to be overwritten with
zeros and then removed, after the passphrase and secret keyring have
been transmitted to PGPdaemon.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.BI $PGPPATH/PGPdaemon.config
the users' configuration file
.TP
.BI $PGPPATH/secring.pgp
the users' secret keyring file
.TP
.BI pgpsendmail/doc/README.PGPdaemon
distribution README (has more info.)
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sendmail (8),
.BR pgp (1),
.BR pgpsendmail (1),
.BR pgpdaemon (1),
.BR pgppipe (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Richard Gooch (rgooch@atnf.csiro.au)
.SH AVAILABILITY
The PGPsendmail/Unix Suite is available for anonymous ftp from:

ftp.atnf.csiro.au:pub/people/rgooch
ftp.dhp.com:pub/crypto/pgp/PGPsendmail
ftp.ox.ac.uk:pub/crypto/pgp/utils
linux.nrao.edu:pub/src/pgp/PGPsendmail
