			  Apache-SSL Webserver
		   NON-COMMERCIAL LICENSE AGREEMENT

1. LICENSE. Community ConneXion ("C2") gives you a non-exclusive,
non-transferable, perpetual license for the Apache-SSL Webserver (the
"Program") and its associated documentation, subject to all of the
following terms and conditions:

a.  to use the Program on any computer;

b.  to make copies of the Program for back-up purposes;

c.  to modify the Program in any manner; and

d.  to copy and distribute the Program, as limited in 2(b).

2. LIMITATIONS ON LICENSE.

a.  Program must not be used directly for revenue-generating
purposes. You may not:

(i) use the Program to provide services to others for which you are
compensated in any manner;

(ii) license or otherwise distribute the Program or any derivative in
any manner that generates income to you, including without limitation
any income on account of license fees, royalties, maintenance fees and
upgrade fees; and

(iii) license or otherwise distribute the Program or any derivative
without the express written acknowledgment of the end user that the
Program will not be used in connection with any revenue-generating
activity of the end user.

Nothing in this paragraph prohibits you from using the Program solely
for internal purposes on the premises of a business which is engaged
in revenue-generating activities.

b. Any redistribution of the package must be done in full, including
all source code, documentation, and license agreements.

c. Program must not be used, in whole, or in part, in connection with
the development, production, handling, operation, maintenance,
storage, detection, identification or dissemination of chemical,
biological or nuclear weapons or the development, production,
maintenance or storage of missiles capable of delivering such weapons.

3. NO C2 OBLIGATION. You are solely responsible for all of your costs
and expenses incurred in connection with the distribution of the
Program, and C2 shall have no liability, obligation or responsibility
therefor.  C2 shall have no obligation to provide maintenance,
support, upgrades or new releases to you or to any distributee of the
Program or any Application Program.

4. NO WARRANTY OF PERFORMANCE. THE PROGRAM AND ITS ASSOCIATED
DOCUMENTATION ARE LICENSED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY AS TO THEIR
PERFORMANCE, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE RESULTS AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS ASSUMED BY YOU AND YOUR DISTRIBUTEES. SHOULD THE PROGRAM
PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU AND YOUR DISTRIBUTEES (AND NOT C2) ASSUME THE
ENTIRE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

5. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED FOR IN
SECTION 6 HEREINUNDER, NEITHER C2 NOR ANY OTHER PERSON WHO HAS BEEN
INVOLVED IN THE CREATION, PRODUCTION, OR DELIVERY OF THE PROGRAM SHALL
BE LIABLE TO YOU OR TO ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY DIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF RSA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGES.

